=== JOB DETAILS ===

Salary: $47,152.80 - $57,314.52 Annually
Location: Martinez, CA
Job Type: Permanent Full-Time
Job Number: EAVA-2016A
Department: Clerk - Recorder
Opening Date: 11/14/2016
Closing Date: 11/28/2016 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Non-Exempt
Bargaining Unit: 3R

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Bargaining Unit: Local 2700- General Clerical Unit
 
The Contra Costa County Clerk-Recorder Division located in downtown Martinez is currently recruiting for the position of Clerk-Recorder Services Technician. These technical positions are assigned to one of the specialized units of the Clerk-Recorder Division: Recording, Clerk Services, Imaging/Indexing and Archive/Warehouse Services.  In addition, Clerk-Recorder Services Technician positions perform technical and complex data entry and clerical support activities associated with the duties and responsibilities of the Clerk-Recorder Division; perform database management in one or more database systems; and perform related work as required.
 
The ideal candidate will possess knowledge and understanding of the County Clerk and Recorder functions as well as how the units interrelate.  Working knowledge of the principles and practices of work organization and the ability to apply them in planning, coordinating and completing work activities to meet specific deadlines, is a must. Candidate must be able to operate personal computers and peripheral equipment, and have knowledge of spreadsheet applications, word processing and database management programs; codes and laws relating to clerk and recorder functions, as well as the ability to independently apply them.  Excellent interpersonal skills are required, as the incumbent will interface with staff at all levels, as well as county officials and members of the public.  Perform other related work as required
 
The employment list established as a result of this examination may remain in effect for six (6) months.
 

Depending on area of assignment, duties may include, but are not limited to the following:

All Units

Uses computer-based programs and equipment to perform a variety of functions, including designing reports, forms, envelopes, and instruction sheets, processing customer requests, on-line database research, data entry, cashiering, document indexing, correspondence, form processing, quality and accuracy verification
Performs complex and technical day-to-day functions of the unit
Answers questions from the public regarding complex issues, including laws and regulations governing clerk and recorder processes. This may be at the counter, over the phone or electronically
Assists with studies on division matters and prepares professional reports
Provides positive customer service, in person, on the phone or electronically
Identifies requirements and schedules adequate time to prepare necessary documents and/or supplies to meet deadlines according to appropriate codes and department's procedures
Implements and follows procedures to increase efficiency and accuracy of division processes
Accurately cashiers transactions, collects fees, makes correct change and reconciles cash drawer to accounting reports
Sorts incoming mail, processes according to division policies and procedures
Monitors and strictly controls access to confidential information
Assures security policies and procedures are strictly followed at all times for the facility, as well as documents and/or bank note security paper
Assists with reviews of procedures to assure completeness and correctness
Assists with maintenance of the division desk manuals
Maintains files, materials and records related to the division
Performs basic routine office equipment maintenance and troubleshooting; coordinates calls for service and/or repairs
May attend meetings, trainings and/or seminars related to division unit as directed
Assists with design and presentation of training programs to division employees, volunteer workers, and members of the public
Assists other functional units in day-to-day duties, as needed or directed
In addition to the above:

Recording Services
Examines complex real property or other documents presented for recording for completeness, accuracy and proper execution
Determines sufficiency for recording based on applicable California codes and division procedures
Rejects documents that do not meet recording requirements
Corresponds with document presenters, specifying reason(s) for recording rejection
Validates general index for accuracy and completeness
Enters and maintains data in proprietary database system
Assist with examination of maps presented for recording to determine sufficiency of completeness, accuracy and proper execution
Provides direct support to Clerk-Recorder Services Specialists performing public (counter) or most complex recordings
Clerk Services
Examines documents presented for filing for completeness, accuracy and proper execution
Determines sufficiency for filing based on applicable California codes and division procedures
Enters and maintains data in proprietary database system
Provides guidance and direction to the public or other agencies at the customer service information counter
Schedules weddings according to division policies and procedures
Provides copies of vital or real property records from public record databases according to applicable California codes and division policies and procedures
Issues marriage licenses according to applicable California code requirements and division policies and procedures
Issues oaths and witnesses signatures as Deputy Clerk according to applicable California codes and division policies and procedures
Performs analysis of supporting information to confirm sufficiency for Professional Registration applicants
Assists with the proper security process for ordering, receipt and storage of registered supplies (vital record bank note paper).
Follows destruction schedule, assists with timely destruction according to schedule
Imaging/Indexing and Archive/Warehouse Support
Assists with data entry, index verification and database maintenance of Clerk-Recorder records
Assists with redaction of documents to meet California State Social Security Truncation Program requirements
Prepares documents for imaging, enters data and images into database system
Assures image and information quality control is according to and meets California codes and division policies and procedures
Assists with maintenance of Clerk-Recorder archive and warehouse inventory
Follows division procedures to provide access to archive facility
Assures sufficient supply inventory is available for division operations
Follows destruction schedule, assists with timely destruction according to schedule
Produces archive copies of Real Property records and index, or other documents from digital database
Prepares customer requests for electronic records according to California codes and division policies and procedures

License Required: Possession of a valid California motor vehicle operator's license.  Out of state valid motor vehicle operator's license will be accepted during the application process.
 
Education:  Possession of a high school diploma, G.E.D. equivalency or high school proficiency certificate.
 
Experience:  Two (2) years of full-time, or its equivalent, clerical or technical experience using spreadsheet, word processing and database management programs.  At least six (6) months of the required experience must have included performing duties related to technical clerk and recorder responsibilities for a County Clerk-Recorder's Office. 
 
Please note: Applications that do not meet the required Clerk and Recording six (6) months experience, will not be considered.  You must list, in detail, the clerical and/or technical functions you have performed.  We will not interpret particular job titles as automatically qualifying when evaluating your application.
 

Application Filing:  All applicants, including County employees, must apply on-line at www.cccounty.us/hr, and attach the required information as indicated on the job announcement by the final filing date listed above. All applicants must clearly demonstrate that they meet the minimum qualifications provided on the job announcement. Resumes may not be substituted for the official County application.  Paper, faxed, or late applications will not be accepted. To view the typical tasks, knowledge, skills, and abilities associated with this position, please visit our website to see the detailed job description.
 
Application Evaluation:Depending on the number of applications received, an Application Evaluation Board may be convened to evaluate and select the best-qualified candidates for invitation to the next phase of the examination.
 
Oral Interview:  An oral interview will be conducted by a Qualifications Appraisal Board in Martinez, CA. The Board will evaluate candidates in job-related areas. Candidates must receive a rating of at least 70 from a majority of the Board members to be ranked on the employment list. (Weighted 100%)

As part of the application process, an applicant may be required to fill out a Conviction History form. Please note that the Conviction History form should only be submitted when requested.

The Human Resources Department may change the examination steps noted above in accordance with the Personnel Management Regulations and accepted selection practices.

CONTRA COSTA COUNTY IS AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

 

To find more information on Benefits offered by Contra Costa County, please go to https://www.contracosta.ca.gov/1343/Employee-Benefits


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        The supplemental questionnaire is part of the application process for the Clerk-Recorder Services Technician.  The purpose of the questionnaire is to provide applicants the opportunity to elaborate on their qualifications. Your responses to the questionnaire will be used to evaluate your relevant experience to determine which applicants will be invited to participate in a competitive oral examination. 

Please answer the questions below and submit your responses with your on-line application. Although you may submit a resume to further describe your qualifications or additional information, such items may not be substituted in lieu of the supplemental questionnaire. An incomplete supplemental questionnaire will result in disqualification. Do not answer any question by indicating "see attached resume". 

An application submitted without the supplemental questionnaire is considered incomplete and will therefore be disqualified.  Please read the Job Announcement carefully for specific filing instructions, supplemental questions, and final filing dates
        
        
                N/A
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Please select all areas in which you have prior experience.
        
        
                Recorded legal documents [in a public office], such as birth, death or marriage licenses
                Recorded, filed and processed fictitious business applications, notary bonds, environmental documents and other documents required by state/federal laws to be filled with a clerk-recorder agency
                Reviewed, accepted applications in a clerk and recording agency
                Recorded and issued marriage licenses
                Documented or examined Real Property documents
                Checked Grantor/Grantee index of all documents recorded
                Recorded, file and archive any of the above documents
                Imaging and indexing of legal documents
                I do not have any of the above experience
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Describe the  experience indicated above, including the following information:

•	Employer's Name, Official Work Title
•	Employment dates and number of hours worked per week
•	Percentage (%) of time spent supporting this function
•	Scope of responsibilities

(If you do not have any applicable experience, please indicate "N/A".)
        
        
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        I certify that I meet the announced requirements for this examination and understand that I will be eliminated at any stage in such examination if it develops that, in fact I do not meet them. I further certify that all statements made in this supplemental questionnaire and the application is true and I agree and understand that misstatements or omissions of material facts will cause forfeiture of my rights to employment with Contra Costa County.
        
        
                Yes
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        