PROGRAM MANAGER SENIOR I
Recruitment #26-005482-0006
| Department | SBE General Administration |
|---|---|
| Date Opened | 4/9/2026 09:09:00 AM |
| Filing Deadline | 4/23/2026 11:59:00 PM |
| Salary | $104,519.00 - $162,800.00/year |
| HR Analyst | Christina Lohr |
| Work Location |
Anne Arundel
|
| Telework Eligible | Yes |
GRADE
LOCATION OF POSITION
Main Purpose of Job
This is a Management Service position, and serves at the pleasure of the Appointing Authority.
POSITION DUTIES
Plans, directs and administers all aspects of an agency program(s) that has a broad scope and major impact on agency missions and operations;
Establishes overall policies and procedures for the program(s), oversees their implementation, evaluates their effectiveness and approves major revisions;
Establishes overall program goals, standards and controls to meet program objectives and oversees their achievement;
Oversees and manages the personnel and financial resources of the program(s);
Plans, coordinates, supervises and evaluates the work of subordinate managers;
Develops, implements and manages short and long-range plans for program operations and resources;
Determines organizational structure and staffing needs of the program(s);
Prescribes and oversees development and training of program staff;
Represents the agency before federal, State and local officials, legislative committees and senior managers and executives of other agencies concerning program activities;
Performs other related duties.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS
DESIRED OR PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS
Preference will be given to applicantsÂ who possess the following preferred qualification(s).Â Include clear and specific information on your application regardingÂ your qualifications.
Ten years of election related experienceÂ
Master's degree or higherÂ
Five years of supervisory experience
LICENSES, REGISTRATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS
SELECTION PROCESS
Please make sure that you provide sufficient information on your application to show that you meet the qualifications for this recruitment. All information concerning your qualifications must be submitted by the closing date.Â We will not consider information submitted after this date.Â Successful candidates will be ranked as Best Qualified, Better Qualified, or Qualified and placed on theÂ eligible (employment) list for at least one year.
EXAMINATION PROCESS
The assessment may consist of a rating of your education, training, and experience related to the requirements of the position.Â It is important that you provide complete and accurate information on your application.Â Please report all experience and education that is related to this position.
Applicants must meet all minimum (and selective) qualifications to be considered, and to appear on the list of people eligible for hire. Please read all requirements before applying.
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
BENEFITS
FURTHER INSTRUCTIONS
Online applications are highly recommended. However, if you are unable to apply online,Â the paper application (and supplemental questionnaire) may be submitted to the State Board of Elections, 151 West St., Suite 200, Annapolis, MD 21401.Â Paper application materials must be received by 5:00 pm on the closing date for the recruitment. Resumes will not be accepted in lieu of an application.
If additional information is required, the preferred method is to upload.Â If you are unable to upload, please fax the requested informationÂ to 410-974-5126.Â Only additional materials that are required will be accepted for this recruitment. All additional information must be received by the closing date and time.
For questions regarding this recruitment, please contact Chris.Lohr@Maryland.gov.
MD TTY Relay Service: 1-800-735-2258.
We thank our Veterans for their service to our country.
People with disabilities and bilingual candidates are encouraged to apply.
As an equal opportunity employer, Maryland is committed to recruitment, retaining and promoting employees who are reflective of the State's diversity.
Click on a link below to apply for this position:
| Fill out the Supplemental Questionnaire and Application NOW using the Internet. | Apply Online |
| View and print the Supplemental Questionnaire. | This recruitment requires completion of a supplemental questionnaire. You may view and print the supplemental questionnaire here. |
| Apply via Paper Application. | You may also download and complete the Paper Application here. |