Senior Project Manager for Research, Partnerships - 138659
#138659 Senior Project Manager for Research, Partnerships
Filing Deadline: Fri 5/1/2026UC San Diego values and welcomes people from all backgrounds. If you are interested in being part of our team, possess the needed licensure and certifications, and feel that you have most of the qualifications and/or transferable skills for a job opening, we strongly encourage you to apply.
UCSD Layoff from Career Appointment: Apply by 3/23/26 for consideration with preference for rehire. All layoff applicants should contact their Employment Advisor.
Reassignment Applicants: Eligible Reassignment clients should contact their Disability Counselor for assistance.
DESCRIPTION
The Department of Political Science was founded in 1974 and currently has 41 faculty members and 11 adjunct faculty who represent a broad spectrum of backgrounds, methodologies, and approaches. Ours is a young department, and yet it has skyrocketed to prominence among political science departments in the United States. The most recent National Academy of Sciences study ranks us among the top ten graduate programs in political science in the country. The political science department conducts research and teaching in all subfields ofpolitical science.
The Center for Transparent and Trusted Elections at UC San Diego facilitates collaboration between researchers, election officials, and civic partners to strengthen democratic institutions through evidence-based election administration. The Senior Project Manager for Research, Partnerships, and Outreach serves as the primary lead for research project lifecycles and strategic dissemination.
The Senior Project Manager of Research, Partnerships and Outreach is responsible for the systematic management of multi-party research initiatives—defining project scopes, managing complex deliverables, and ensuring adherence to grant requirements and university compliance standards. This role requires a sophisticated understanding of the distinct communication frameworks utilized by researchers, election administrators, and journalists. The Senior Project Manager will translate complex research findings into accessible policy briefs, technical reports, and high-impact digital content tailored for a national audience of election administrators and policymakers.
Beyond project coordination, the Project Manager will steward cross-sector partnerships, negotiate timelines among diverse stakeholders, and facilitate high-level outreach to amplify the Center’s data through national media and professional associations. This position requires an advanced ability to analyze organizational needs and deliver strategic communications that drive policy influence and institutional trust.
Hybrid work schedule: 3 days in the office and 2 days at home.
Please submit a cover letter along with a resume for a complete application.
QUALIFICATIONS
Experience in research and disseminating research that supports the trust-building efforts of election officials around the country.
Substantive knowledge of the elections field.
Experience in developing proposals and recommendations to guide and support a broader strategic direction for the organization or initiative.
Experience with planning events.
Experience analyzing, researching and synthesizing large amounts of data for preparing sound and relevant proposals / analyses.
Proven ability to manage complex projects involving multiple stakeholders.
Knowledge of common organization- or research-specific and other computer application programs.
Strong communication and interpersonal skills to communicate effectively, both verbally and in writing.
Ability to use discretion and maintain all confidentiality.
Analytical / problem-solving skills. Collaborative, detail-oriented, and proactive.
Ability to multi-task with demanding timeframes.
Strong policy analysis techniques.
Passion for strengthening democratic systems and improving the transparency and trustworthiness of elections.
PREFERRED:
- Experience in election administration at the local, county, or state level (preferably in the South, Southwest, Midwest, or Mountain West) or experience in managing research-practice partnerships is preferred.
SPECIAL CONDITIONS
- Background check required.
Pay Transparency Act
Annual Full Pay Range: Unclassified - No data available (will be prorated if the appointment percentage is less than 100%)
Hourly Equivalent: Unclassified - No data available
Factors in determining the appropriate compensation for a role include experience, skills, knowledge, abilities, education, licensure and certifications, and other business and organizational needs. The Hiring Pay Scale referenced in the job posting is the budgeted salary or hourly range that the University reasonably expects to pay for this position. The Annual Full Pay Range may be broader than what the University anticipates to pay for this position, based on internal equity, budget, and collective bargaining agreements (when applicable).
If employed by the University of California, you will be required to comply with our Policy on Vaccination Programs, which may be amended or revised from time to time. Federal, state, or local public health directives may impose additional requirements.
To foster the best possible working and learning environment, UC San Diego strives to cultivate a rich and diverse environment, inclusive and supportive of all students, faculty, staff and visitors. For more information, please visit UC San Diego Principles of Community.
The University of California is an Equal Opportunity Employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age, protected veteran status, or other protected status under state or federal law.
For the University of California’s Anti-Discrimination Policy, please visit: https://policy.ucop.edu/doc/1001004/Anti-Discrimination
UC San Diego is a smoke and tobacco free environment. Please visit smokefree.ucsd.edu for more information.
Misconduct Disclosure Requirement: As a condition of employment, the final candidate who accepts an offer of employment will be required to disclose if they have been subject to any final administrative or judicial decisions within the last seven years determining that they committed any misconduct; or have filed an appeal of a finding of substantiated misconduct with a previous employer.
a. "Misconduct" means any violation of the policies governing employee conduct at the applicant’s previous place of employment, including, but not limited to, violations of policies prohibiting sexual harassment, sexual assault, or other forms of harassment, or discrimination, as defined by the employer. For reference, below are UC’s policies addressing some forms of misconduct:
- UC Sexual Violence and Sexual Harassment Policy
- UC Anti-Discrimination Policy
- Abusive Conduct in the Workplace