=== JOB DETAILS ===

SALARY: $51,616.00 - $90,328.00 Annually
LOCATION: Wake County, NC
JOB TYPE: Permanent Full-Time
REMOTE EMPLOYMENT: Flexible/Hybrid
JOB NUMBER: 65031076-02072023
DEPARTMENT: State Board of Elections
DIVISION: State Board of Elections
OPENING DATE: 10/16/2023
CLOSING DATE: 2/16/2024 5:00 PM Eastern
JOB CLASS TITLE: Election Specialist II
POSITION NUMBER: 65031076
SALARY GRADE: NC15

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

***REPOST:  This position has been changed from a Time-Limited Position to a Permanent Position.  Previous candidates are still being considered and do not need to reapply***

Recruitment Range: $51,616 - $72,000


*Primary Purpose of the Organizational Unit
The elections operations business team (hereinafter “business team”) must have considerable to thorough knowledge of the various election programs, election processes and election procedures to guide county boards of elections staff, board members, election judges, candidates and voters through the elections process. Specifically, in addition to agency polices, the business team must have knowledge of Chapter 163 of the North Carolina General Statutes, Title 8 of the North Carolina Administrative Code, the National Voter Registration Act of 1993 (NVRA), the Help America Vote Act of 2002 (HAVA), and the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act (UOCAVA). The elections business team must use this knowledge of election law and policy to plan, organize, instruct, supervise and audit the work of county boards of elections in the administration of elections in North Carolina. The team must translate complex election law into comprehensive business processes and procedures that must be followed by county board staff, board members and precinct and voting site officials. Since the nature of election and policy change frequently, the election business team must be employ agility and flexibility to adapt business processes to accommodate statutory changes. The elections business team serve as project coordinators for each election event in the state and help ensure that county boards of elections are successful in performing all tasks related to an election and meet each related event milestone.


*Primary Purpose of the Position

The Absentee Voting Program Specialist has extensive knowledge of election administration and performs detailed planning and preparation for civilian, military and overseas citizens mail-in absentee voting.  This will include the pre-absentee season processes, mail-in approval processes, county board absentee meeting procedures, election day mail-in counting processes in all 100 North Carolina counties and the State Board of Elections in compliance with General Statute 163.  Performs work in assuring that the mail-in absentee program is timely and accurately conducted with successful counting of all eligible mail-in ballots.  Performs work in coordinating with USPS, FVAP, DOJ, and all stakeholder agencies in conducting the program.  Coordinates with the voting systems division in assuring that absentee ballots are ready for deployment on a timely basis.  
 
 This position will work closely with the State Board of Elections legal division, the IT division, and other stakeholders to review election law and make necessary recommendations in the mail-in absentee process.  Collaborates with the communications division of the State Board of Elections to develop and maintain web content and other public documents pertaining to these areas and with the State Board of Elections in assuring that all absentee rules and requirements are met.  Collaborates with county election board staffs and state agencies to assure that all counties comply with multipartisan assistance team (MAT) training and MAT deployment in all 100 counties.  Works closely with the in-person voting specialist in identifying areas that need clarification and/or training within the county voting programs.


Description of Work
Develops and reviews procedures, instructions, forms, and program materials for absentee voting. Work may be in collaboration with agency legal counsel, Project Management section, Training & Outreach section, and other SBE and CBE stakeholders to provide policy and procedural recommendations.  
 
Guides counties in implementation, administration, and compliance of voting procedures, laws, including photo ID, and regulations for absentee voting, including civilian, military, and overseas citizens absentee voting. Includes assisting SBE helpdesk in providing guidance and troubleshooting.  
 
Work with Communications Division to develop and maintain web content and other public documents related to in-person voting.
 
Works with third party vendors to provide support on absentee ballot request, UOCAVA, and Visually impaired voter portal
 
 
 
 
 





Thorough knowledge of North Carolina election law as it pertains to absentee voting processes and procedures.
 
Thorough knowledge of North Carolina election law, rules, and directives and federal election laws, acts, and programs.
 
Considerable understanding of SEIMS absentee module and other related technology.
 
Ability to interpret, apply, and communicate statutory regulations of the program area.
 
Ability to analyze, interpret, recommend, and implement policy and procedural guidelines.
 
Ability to instruct and explain standards and procedures.
 
Ability to communicate effectively both orally and in writing.
 
Ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships as necessitated by work assignments.
 
Ability to provide supervision to program assistant, as well as a small, seasonal staff of temporary assistants.
 
Ability to work independently, use sound judgement in making decisions, and be an effective team member.


Bachelor's degree, preferably with an emphasis in public policy, political science, business administration or closely related area from an appropriately accredited institution, and four years of administrative and/or technical experience in a public program as it relates to the area of assignment; or Associate s degree in business administration or closely related area from an appropriately accredited institution, and six years of administrative and/or technical experience in a public program as it relates to the area of assignment; or High school or General Educational Development (GED) diploma and eight years of progressive administrative and/or technical experience in a public program as it relates to the area of assignment; or an equivalent combination of education and experience.

Do you have at least four years of experience in elections or any other program management?
 Yes

 No


I agree that if offered this position, I would accept an offer within the advertised recruitment range $51,616 - $72,000.