=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: City and County Clerk
Salary: $115,003.20 - $155,604.80 YEAR
Location: Broomfield, CO, CO, 80020
Employer: City and County of Broomfield
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2021-03-01
Job Type: FT Exempt
Job Number: 2020-00269
Department: CLK CITY/COUNTY CLERK
Opening Date: 03/02/2021
Closing Date: 3/15/2021 5:00 PM Mountain
FLSA: Exempt

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===




Join The Team, Make A Difference, Contribute to Your Community




Apply Today to Serve as Broomfield’s Next City & County Clerk 




Your Community 

Nationally Ranked Voter Turnout 

Transformational Growth In Next Few Years

Ranked 18th Best Place to Live in Nation 

Ranked 4th Healthiest Community in the Country 




Your Team 

Highly-Rated Motor Vehicle Team 

Expert Elections Team Passionate About Voter Engagement & Process Improvement 

Driven City Clerk & Recording Team




Your Role 

Dedicated Servant Leader

Inspiring Example of Innovation & Professionalism

Critical Member of Leadership Team Eager to Collaborate Across Organization 

  

Submit your online application by 5 pm on March 15, 2021.

Hiring Range:  $104,832 - $126,620
Salary Range: $104,832 - $148,408




Selected applicants should prepare for interviews on the following tentative dates:




Date: March 17 - March 26  (Screening interviews)

Date:  March 31 - April 6 (Zoom panel interviews)    

Date: - April 6 - April 28 (Employee and City Council Forum)

Date: May 5 - May 7 (City and County Manager interviews)

 

About you: 

Would you enjoy the unique experience of managing and overseeing operations including elections procedures for both a City and a County?

Do you prefer to work collaboratively across workgroups in an organization?

Does providing leadership and direction for a complex, high-performing team sound fulfilling?

Do you create an innovative workplace by encouraging new ideas while implementing change management practices for the team and yourself?

As the City and County Clerk you will be required to perform the following job duties:

Plan, direct, organize, implement, and coordinate all programs and activities associated with City Clerk,  Recording, Elections, and Motor Vehicle divisions.

Create strategic plans, assemble staff resources, and delegate tasks to assigned staff members.

Communicate official plans, policies, and procedures to staff, civic organizations, and the general public through various means of communication.

Effectively communicate and work with City Council members.

Review proposed ordinances and regulations, plans, and technical reports related to departmental activities for content, accuracy, and feasibility; present ordinance changes, reports, and studies.

Our ideal candidate will:

Possess skill in navigating potentially contentious matters with professionalism, tact, and diplomacy.

Ability to address matters with sound political acumen. 

Display excellent relationship-building skills with internal teams and external partners.

Understand and maintain a considerable knowledge of Elections, Motor Vehicle, Recording, and Municipal Clerk statutes and promulgated rules.

Have experience in Colorado election law.

Possess excellent knowledge of the principles and practices of the election process and elections systems.

Demonstrate outstanding interpersonal skills and communicate clearly and effectively (both written and verbal).

Demonstrate an analytical and creative mind to solve complex business problems.

Model excellent leadership, prioritization, and project management skills.

Exhibit eagerness to continually learn, adapt, and improve.




(Persons hired in this position must be able to perform all the essential tasks required by the position.  The following statements are illustrative of the essential functions of the job and do not include other non-essential or peripheral duties that may be required. The City and County of Broomfield retains the right to modify or change the duties or essential tasks and additional functions of the job at any time.  Examples of duties are not intended to be all-inclusive or restrictive.)

Maintain confidentiality of information consistent with applicable federal, state and city/county rules and regulations.  The incumbent is responsible for planning, developing, and implementing the programs, processes and projects of the City and County Clerk's department.  Develops the overall vision and directs the mission of the various operational units.  Ensures that assigned staff works as a team to avoid duplication of service and to ensure that customer expectations are recognized and resolved thereby maximizing customer satisfaction.  Establishes short and long-range goals including annual Service Efforts and Accomplishments; provide staff with the appropriate tools and guidance in order to reach those goals.  Develop and implement policies, procedures and standards for efficient and effective operation and maintenance of operations.  Assure compliance with established policies and procedures.  Analyze operational procedures to assure maximum efficiency and implements changes in policy and procedures for the City and County Clerk's department. Conduct planning/ideation sessions with appropriate audience in order to gather ideas and information to effect innovative and cost-effective programs.  Coordinate and balance activities of department with those of other departments, governmental agencies, or community organizations. Maintain awareness of federal, state, and local laws, rules and regulations pertaining to City and County Clerk operations.  Maintain managerial responsibility for all facilities and equipment in use by the department; ensures that they are operating effectively and safely.  Assess departmental needs to determine necessity of resources including personnel, capital improvements and equipment acquisition.

Directs the operations of and accounting for the recording, indexing, and reproducing of legal documents, plats, deeds and legal instruments and the issuance of marriage licenses in accordance with legal requirements.  Manages agenda and minutes production of all city council sessions. The incumbent is the official custodian of city/county records and ensures the safekeeping of all public records associated with city/county affairs.  Maintains and furnishes deed abstracts upon request. Collect a multitude of licensing fees.  Executes city/county responsibilities related to motor vehicles, certification of automobile taxes and motor vehicle registration.  Manage voter registration.  Assume responsibility for election procedures on national, state, county, local, school and special elections.  File official abstracts of votes cast for candidates in primary, special and general elections.  Assists in candidate campaigning procedures and instructs canvassers of procedures in canvassing elections.  Analyzes and recommends action on election matters within the framework of applicable laws.  Interprets and communicates election policies to subordinate staff and other election personnel.  Oversee the training of election judges.  Responsible for ballot design and printing, tally sheets, and sample ballots.

Manage and supervise operations to achieve goals within available resources; plan and organize workloads and staff assignments; review progress and direct change as needed.  Provide leadership and direction in the development of short and long-range plans; gather, interpret, and prepare data for studies, reports and recommendations; coordinate department activities with other departments and agencies as needed.  Present budget proposal to Budget Division and City and County Manager.  Assure that responsibilities are performed within budget; perform cost control activities; monitor revenues and expenditures to assure sound fiscal control; prepare annual and semi-annual budget requests; assure effective and efficient use of budgeted funds, personnel, materials, facilities, and time.  

Hire, assign, schedule, evaluate and direct work of subordinates; train subordinates to render effective service to the department.  Recommend personnel actions including hiring, promotion, evaluation, disciplinary action, and separation; provides training as necessary.  Assign work to subordinate supervisors who, in turn, direct the work of their units.  Issue oral and written guidelines and approves procedures developed by subordinate supervisors.  Review and analyze work completed to determine effectiveness in meeting standards, goals and objectives and assuring conformance to policies and procedures.  Implement change and develop or assist in development of new projects or activities.  Determine training needs for subordinate supervisors.  Approve and evaluate the effectiveness of training programs utilized for subordinate personnel.  Appraise performance of subordinate supervisors.  Review performance evaluations written by subordinate supervisors and evaluates their recommendations.  Assist subordinate employees in problematic areas.  Maintain harmony among workers and resolve grievances; perform or assist subordinates in performing duties.  Initiates appropriate disciplinary actions based on recommendations of subordinate supervisors for assigned employees.

Answer letters of inquiry/complaints and talk with patrons; address public and civic organizations, which inform the public of activities, policies, procedures and the availability of programs/facilities for public use.  Represent the department at various governmental and professional meetings.  Review legislative bills impacting City and County Clerk operations.  Testify in court concerning office procedures and certification of documents.  Attend meetings, workshops, and conventions as necessary for the maintenance of effective services.  Review proposed ordinances and regulations, plans, and technical reports related to departmental activities for content, accuracy, and feasibility; present ordinance changes, reports and studies to City Council.  Provide assistance to other City and County departments as required.  Provide professional advice on issues to City and County Manager and City Council; make presentations to supervisors, boards, commissions, civic groups and the general public.  Communicate official plans, policies and procedures to staff and the general public.  Maintain liaison with other departments as well as state, local, and other public officials.  Keeps operational records and makes required reports.  

Operate a personal computer including associated software programs.  Operate a motor vehicle in traveling to and from work sites.  Assure that facilities and equipment are maintained properly and coordinate maintenance and repair functions.  Evaluates service costs and makes related recommendations.  Identifies and recommends improvements in divisional and departmental operations to ensure assigned functions are efficient and cost-effective.  Takes proper safety precautions, anticipates unsafe circumstances and acts accordingly to prevent accidents.  Uses all required safety equipment.  Perform related duties as required.




 

Training - Bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university with an emphasis in business or public administration or related field.

Experience -  A minimum of at least three years of high-level management experience in the administration or operation of a clerk/recorder office.  Applicants must demonstrate senior-level work experience and understanding of the in various program areas such as elections, recording, county motor vehicle operations, and city clerk operations.  Experience in Colorado election law is preferred.  

Any equivalent combination of training and experience that provides evidence that the applicant possesses the Necessary Applicant Traits.

NECESSARY SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS – Must be at least 21 years of age.  Must possess and maintain a valid driver's license and safe driving record for continued employment.  New hires must, as a condition of employment, pass the following pre-offer and post-offer/hire processes: oral board, reference checks, background checks including local police check and sex-offender registry, driving records check through DMV, and fingerprint checks through CBI/FBI.

The work environment characteristics described here are representative of those an employee encounters while performing the essential functions of the job.  The noise level in the environment is moderate.  Work is generally scheduled Monday through Friday with some weekend and evening hours required.  The physical demands described here are representative of those that must be met by an employee to successfully perform the essential functions of the job.  While performing the duties of this job, the employee is frequently required to sit, talk or hear, and use hands to finger, handle, or feel objects, tools, or controls.  The employee is occasionally required to reach with hands and arms, walk and stand.  Physical demands are described as light (exert up to 20 lbs. of force occasionally and/or up to 10 lbs. of force frequently, and/or a negligible amount of force constantly to lift, carry, push, pull, or otherwise move objects, including the human body).  Specific vision abilities required by this job include close vision, distance vision, and ability to adjust focus.  Reasonable accommodation may be made to enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions.

For a full job description, please click here and search for the job title.

All communication via your application will come from info@governmentjobs.com. 
Please add this to your email Safe List.

Broomfield is an Equal Opportunity Employer.  For additional information click here.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Do you have a valid driver's license and a safe driving record?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Are you at least 21 years of age?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Do you have at least three years of high-level management experience in the administration or operation of a clerk/recorder office?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Do you have a Bachelor's Degree from an accredited college or university with an emphasis in business or public administration or closely related field or relevant administrative work experience on a year for year basis for the education requirement?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        If you said "Yes" to having the required educational background, please explain further.  If you said "No" to possessing a minimum of a bachelor's degree, please explain how your experience, in excess of the minimum required for the position, can be substituted for the educational requirement.
        
        
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        How much work experience do you have within a County Clerk and Recorder's Office?  Experience must be accounted for in your application.
        
        
                None
                Less than 6 months
                More than 6 months but less than 12 months
                More than 1 year but less than 2 years
                More than 2 years but less than 3 years
                More than 3 years but less than 4 years
                More than 4 years but less than 5 years
                More than 5 years
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Please explain the work experience you have within a County Clerk and Recorder's Office including the duties you were responsible for.  If you do not have any experience, please type "N/A."
        
        
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Explain your experience with Colorado election law?  If you do not have this requisite experience please indicate "N/A".
        
        
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        Describe how you develop future leaders within your organization. 
 If you have not dealt with leadership development, please indicate "N/A."
        
        
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        Why this position and why Broomfield?
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        