APPROXIMATE ANNUAL SALARY -
$47,188.80 to
$69,739.20
PAY GRADE: 33
The salary range indicated in this announcement is based on the Employee/Employer retirement compensation schedule. An employer-only option is available at a reduced salary range. Generally, salaries start at the lowest level of a step 1 and increase with each year of service to the highest level of a step 10.
For more information on benefit and retirement programs, please see the sections below.
In order to receive consideration, applicants must indicate their availability for any work type, travel, and location requirements listed.
Legal Research Assistants spend the majority of time providing the most difficult paralegal assistance/support to agency counsel, drawing upon their training and/or experience to analyze a specific set of facts; performing general legal research for a specific question of law; reaching a conclusion of law; presenting findings either orally or in writing for the attorney's review; and composing briefs, pleadings, motions and other legal documents for the attorney's review and signature.
Incumbents possess a degree of knowledge and proficiency sufficient to perform work independently with little or no additional training.
The position is an integral part of the Nevada Secretary of State's Elections division located in Carson City. The incumbent would be responsible for numerous administrative and research functions supporting the entire electoral process as well as the drafting, review, and presentation of elections-related legislature. Applicants should have a basic familiarity with Nevada Revised Statute Title 24 - Elections, basic familiarity with Microsoft Office products, and a basic understanding of how state and federal elections are conducted. The State of Nevada is committed to Equal Employment Opportunity/Affirmative Action in recruitment of its employees and does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion or belief, age, disability, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, domestic partnership, genetic information (GINA), or compensation and/or wages. *** THIS RECRUITMENT MAY CLOSE AT ANY TIME BASED ON THE AMOUNT OF APPLICATIONS RECEIVED. APPLICANTS ARE ENCOURAGED TO APPLY AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. ***
In order to be qualified, you must meet the following requirements:
Education and Experience (Minimum Qualifications)
Completion of an accredited paralegal program or an Associate's degree in paralegal studies, administration of justice or related field that included major coursework in legal studies and one year of experience which included legal research and preparation of pleadings and other documents filed in court; OR graduation from high school or equivalent education and two years of experience as described above; OR an equivalent combination of education and experience as described above.
Special Notes
Applicants must attach a copy of their paralegal certificate or college or university transcripts, if applicable.
The Examination
Application Evaluation Exam
The exam will consist of an application evaluation. It is essential that applications include detailed information with time frames regarding education and experience. The most qualified applicants will be contacted by the hiring agency for interview. The hiring agency may require specific skills related testing as part of the interviewing process.
Help us reach qualified candidates! Refer a friend by clicking here: Email
Direct Inquiries or Correspondence to:
Division of Human Resource Management Northern Nevada 515 East Musser Street, First Floor Carson City, Nevada 89701-4204
TDD for the Hearing Impaired (800) 326-6868
Division of Human Resource Management Southern Nevada 7251 Amigo St, Suite 120 Las Vegas, NV 89119
TDD for the Hearing Impaired (800) 326-6868
The State of Nevada is an equal opportunity employer dedicated to building diverse, inclusive, and innovative work environments with employees who reflect our communities and enthusiastically serve them. All applicants are considered without regard to race, color, national origin, religion or belief, age, disability, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, domestic partnership, genetic information (GINA), or compensation and/or wages.