=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Election Specialist
Salary: $38,102.00 - $40,007.00 YEAR
Location: Louisburg, NC, NC, 27549
Employer: Franklin County (NC)
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2025-07-30
Job Type: Full Time
Job Number: 202500111
Department: Board of Elections
Opening Date: 07/31/2025

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

An employee in this class is responsible for assisting the Director of Elections in all phases of the elections process, including setting up polling places, training seasonal staff, working with registrars and judges, processing voter registrations, filing of candidates for office, recording minutes, and other such duties in accordance with North Carolina Election laws, the US Justice Department, and the County Board of Elections. The employee performs clerical functions a significant percentage of time. Work is performed in compliance with all applicable laws and policies established by the State, local Board of Elections, and the County. Work is reviewed by the Director of Elections, and by the Board of Elections in the absence of the Director.

Assists local, state, and federal candidates and the general public with election laws and other information; and assist in testing voter equipment for accuracy. 

Receives applications for voter registration; verifies information; ensure placement of each voter in correct precinct, municipality, and/or district.

            Prints and mails voter registration cards.

            Assists the Director in planning for various elections such as primaries, second primaries, municipal elections, general elections, and special elections; prior to elections, works with polling places and assist in making them operational.

            Works with Director to prepare for each election; trains staff as directed; help prepare ballots, voting equipment, and package precinct registration supplies.

            On Election Day assist voters with problems voting; verifies eligibility of applicants to register to vote and provides ballots.

            Assist with staffing one-stop voting sites.

            Readies election machines for elections.

            Enters data on the computer system for voter registration; maintains current registration files; makes appropriate changes

            Runs statistical reports and keeps data updated as instructed by the Director of Elections.

            Attends and assists with Board of Election meetings as instructed by the Director of Elections.

            Furnishes absentee ballot applications to persons requesting, mails absentee ballots for approved applications.

            Attends State seminars and other authorized training sessions as approved by the Director of Elections.

             

Additional Job Duties

            Keeps the Board of Elections website with most current information.

            Performs related duties as required.

 

  Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities

            Working knowledge of elections and basic familiarity with voting procedures.

            Considerable knowledge of modern office practices, procedures, and equipment. 

            Working knowledge of the operations and functions of County government.

            Ability to work with accuracy in the entry and verification of voter data.

            Ability to perform assignments based on general directions and to perform continuing assignments independently.

            Ability to learn electoral procedures and policies and be able to train temporary workers accordingly.

            Ability to communicate effectively in oral and written forms.

            Ability to develop and maintain effective working relationships with precinct officials, County Officials, Board Members, staff, and general public.

Graduation from high school and responsible progressive clerical experience dealing with the public; or an equivalent combination of training, education, and experience.

Must possess a valid North Carolina driver’s license upon hire.

            Notary Public Certification or the ability to obtain certification in the time specified by the Board of Elections.

            Must be able to obtain a NC Elections Administrator certificate within the specified time per the NC State Board of Elections.

Franklin County offers a competitive benefits package designed to encourage and support your health, well-being and productivity. Benefit options include medical and dental insurance; elective supplemental insurance options such as short-term disability, vision, and voluntary term life; local government retirement; 401(k) with a 4% employer contribution (no employee match required); generous paid leave that includes 13 county-observed paid holidays per year; an employee wellness program inclusive of a county sponsored gym and an employee assistance program.For more information about Franklin County benefit options please click here Benefits Summary.