=== JOB DETAILS ===

Salary: $38,277.46 - $48,428.12 Annually
Location: Alexandria, VA
Job Type: Full-Time
Job Number: 2016-00317
Department: Voter Registration & Elections
Division: Administration
Opening Date: 06/01/2016
Closing Date: 6/8/2016 11:59 PM Eastern
Bargaining Unit: N/A

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

 

SENIOR ASSISTANT REGISTRAR



 "Preserving the Past, while Innovating our Future!"
 
The City of Alexandria is located in northern Virginia, and is bordered by the District of Columbia (Potomac River), Arlington, and Fairfax counties.  With a population of approximately 150,000 and a land area of 15.75 square miles, Alexandria is the seventh largest city in the Commonwealth of Virginia. Alexandria has a charming waterfront and is a unique and historic place to live and work.  About one-quarter of the City's square miles have been designated as a national or local historic district.  We proudly embrace our rich history and seize the endless opportunities that lie ahead.  If you are interested in working for the vibrant City of Alexandria, we invite qualified candidates to apply for a position as a Senior Assistant Registrar.
 
Our work is driven by our 4 Guiding Principles:
Aligning the work we do with our strategic plan
Executing against our strategy and ensuring accountability for our results
Promoting and encouraging a culture of leadership and ownership at all levels of the organization
Promoting a culture of service excellence, creativity and entrepreneurship
 
An Overview
The Senior Assistant Registrar is a sworn election official who is the main gate-keeper for all Voter Registration transactions in the City of Alexandria.  Incumbent allocates work to Assistant Registrars I, II and III and leads the effort to make certain all work is completed accurately and in time to meet code-mandated (pre-election) registration deadlines. Annual responsibility for managing 70,000 to 150,000 of these transactions, and securing over 100,000 voter registration applications from Alexandria City citizens. Must also be able to provide excellent customer service (by phone, by e-mail and in-person) to voters with simple as well as complex voter registration questions.

The Opportunity – Examples of Work
Examines voter registration applications to determine if they should be accepted, canceled, transferred or denied;
Uses sensitive data concerning felony convictions, death notices, mental incapacity, and citizenship status to make legal determinations about voter eligibility;
Provides guidance to election officers on issues involving voter eligibility on Election Day;
Prepares and monitors the City's 150 electronic poll-books before, during and after each election;
Maintains daily, monthly and annual reports that track all voter registration activity in the City;
Monitors changes in City streets and subdivisions to keep precinct boundaries accurate;
Enters all new streets into the voter registration system to make certain new registrants are assigned to the correct precinct;
Performs related work as assigned.

About the Department
The Alexandria Voter Registration & Elections office is responsible for maintaining an accurate list of Alexandria City voters and verifying voters who present themselves to vote either at the polling place or by absentee application. Additionally, they are charged with the duty of administering all local, state and federal elections in Alexandria in accordance with the law; to fairly elect leadership for our government and ensure the legitimate and orderly transfer of power and conduct elections that citizens believe are fair, unbiased and orderly.
 

A high school diploma; completion of training in computer software used in a typical office setting; one year of experience performing work in a position equivalent to an Assistant Registrar II or III; or any equivalent combination of experience and training which provides the required knowledge, skills and abilities. Must be a registered voter in the Commonwealth of Virginia.

Four-year college degree; One year of experience at the level of Assistant Registrar; knowledge and experience using the Virginia Elections and Registration Information System; Significant coursework and workshop attendance related to voter registration and elections; Knowledge of Election law, 24.2 of the Code of Virginia; knowledge and experience in processing transactions for voter registration in the Virginia Elections and Registration Information System; IT Knowledge and experience using data bases and proficient in use of Microsoft Office.

This position requires the successful completion of pre-employment checks to include, but not limited to a criminal background check.

The City of Alexandria is an Equal Opportunity Employer and values diversity in its workforce. All qualified candidates will receive consideration without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, personal appearance, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, family responsibilities, matriculation, political affiliation, genetic information, military status, or disability. 

We are proud to welcome you to explore the City of Alexandria's excellent benefits and programs!Click here to learn more about Employee BenefitsClick here to learn more about the City's Employee Development ProgramThe benefits referenced on this site, may be changed from time to time without notice. Also, temporary and some part-time positions are not eligible for these benefits. For further information, please contact the Benefits Division of the Department of Human Resources at 703.746.3785 or email DHR.Benefits@alexandriava.gov .


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        I understand that failure to thoroughly and accurately complete the "Education" and "Work Experience" sections on my application and the "Supplemental Questionnaire" will result in my application being rejected.
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Do you have a High School Diploma or GED?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Do you have at least one year of experience performing voter registration work in a public office?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Are you a registered voter in the Commonwealth of Virginia, or able to become a registered voter prior to accepting this position?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        This full-time position requires the ability to work some evenings, occasional early morning and weekends. Can you meet this requirement?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Do you have superior computer/internet/word processing skills and/or experience creating and maintaining data reports?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Please share your English/Spanish bilingual proficiency.
        
        
                None
                Beginner
                Intermediate
                Proficient
                Fluent
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Do you have experience in voter registration within Virginia?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        Indicate your years of Virginia voter registration experience.
        
        
                None
                1-2 Years
                2-4 Years
                4 Years or More
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        What additional skills do you possess that would benefit the Alexandria Voter Registration & Elections Office? Please explain, if none, indicate N/A.
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        