=== JOB DETAILS ===

SALARY: $82,808.00 - $144,914.00 Annually
LOCATION: Wake County, NC
JOB TYPE: Permanent Full-Time
JOB NUMBER: 60088571-07292021
DEPARTMENT: State Board of Elections
DIVISION: State Board of Elections
OPENING DATE: 07/29/2021
CLOSING DATE: 8/25/2021 5:00 PM Eastern
POSITION NUMBER: 60088571
SECTION: Legal and Compliance
SALARY GRADE: AT04

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

REPOST: Previous Applications are still being considered and do not need to reapply

Recruitment Range: $75,650 - $102,000
Salary is based on education and experience qualifications along with equity considerations across the agency.  

Primary Purpose of the Board of Elections:

The N.C. State Board of Elections is the statewide agency that supervises elections administration, enforces campaign finance requirements, and conducts associated investigations.  The State Board ensures uniform implementation of state and federal election laws and appoints local officials serving on county boards of elections. The Board is composed of five individuals appointed by the Governor from lists of nominees submitted by the chairs of the two political parties having the highest number of registered affiliates.  Agency staff are civil servants subject to the State Personnel Act.  



Primary Purpose of the Organizational Unit: 

This position works within the legal staff of the State Board of Elections, which supports all agency functions.

Primary Purpose of the Position: 

This position provides legal counsel on an array of complex constitutional, statutory, and policy questions affecting election administration. The attorney also devotes substantial efforts to support litigation needs and to review and revise training and other materials summarizing legal standards.

Description of Work: 

Provide advanced legal support for the agency regarding the proper interpretation and application of constitutional provisions, laws, administrative rules and court decisions. Advise appointed State Board members individually and in meetings. Draft agency rules, policy positions and general guidance. Assist with the research, planning and development of effective policies related to elections administration and other legal issues coming before the State Board and agency. Analyze cases, research, plan, develop, and execute effective policies related to the implementation of statutory mandates.  
Respond to interested parties regarding matters pertaining to the implementation of election laws. Draft informational letters, forms, instructions, and other guidance. Provide counsel regarding the impact of changes in laws and regulations.   Review draft legislation and provide feedback as needed.
Develop and deliver trainings, as assigned, for elections officials and other stakeholders at conferences and/or CLEs. Review training and certification program content on a range of topics for accuracy, legal sufficiency, and appropriateness for intended audiences.
Explain agency positions and policies to candidates, public officials, local elections officials, other stakeholders, and members of the public.
Provide internal support on litigation matters when required.
Provide internal support on other matters, including contract review and personnel matters, as requested by the General Counsel.

This position will perform other duties related to election administration as assigned.




- Must possess the ability to interpret and apply constitutional provisions, statutes, administrative rules and court decisions.
- Ability to analyze facts and evidence to determine whether potential violations of North Carolina law have occurred.
- Must possess knowledge of judicial and quasi-judicial procedures.
- Attorney should have the ability to express conclusions and arguments clearly and logically in oral and written form.  
- Ability to analyze legal problems and render formal opinions regarding policy implications.
- Ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships.
- A required and highly important skill of the position is demonstrated experience developing strong interpersonal relationships, including working well with people of diverse perspectives, and exercising sound judgment and decision-making on difficult issues.
- Must be able to operate independently but know when to seek feedback and guidance from others.

Management Preferences:


Experience with elections law, North Carolina state or local government law, and/or advising a board or commission.  Ability to work independently and to multi-task and prioritize matters appropriately.






Licensed to practice law by the North Carolina State Bar and two years of progressively responsible professional legal experience.

NOTE: GS 114-2 and 114-6 make it the duty of the Attorney General of NC to represent the State of North Carolina in all litigation unless another statute specifically states otherwise.

I understand that the recruitment range for this position is $75,750 - $102,000 and is based on education, experience, and agency equity considerations.
 Yes

 No
