=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Warehouse Operations Supervisor (Elections Services Supervisor)
Salary: $68,691.72 - $83,495.16 YEAR
Location: Contra Costa County, CA
Employer: County of Contra Costa
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2021-08-09
Job Type: Permanent Full-Time
Job Number: ALHB-2021A
Department: Clerk - Recorder
Division: Elections
Opening Date: 08/09/2021
Closing Date: 8/29/2021 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Exempt
Bargaining Unit: ZA

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Why join the Contra Costa County, Clerk-Recorder Department?
Are you an innovator and high achiever? Service driven? Dedicated to quality?

We are seeking an experienced election administration professional to plan and supervise warehouse operations in one of the state’s and nation’s largest counties.

Contra Costa County has more than 700,000 registered voters and a population of 1.1 million. Located in the San Francisco Bay Area, Contra Costa County offers great salary and benefits in addition to a collaborative and fast paced work environment. If your election experience includes tremendous overtime during an election, be prepared for a new experience.

As the Warehouse Operations Supervisor, you will:

Direct operations at two warehouse locations
Monitor and maintain item inventory using an electronic inventory management system
Direct the preparation and packing of election supplies and equipment
Direct returned vote by mail ballot scanning and sorting process
Plan and oversee the collection of vote by mail ballots from secure drop boxes and USPS
We are looking for someone who is:
A collaborative leader and coach. You will be leading technicians and specialists and working with other election units, County Departments and Agencies.
A planner and organizer. You will need to create project plans, organize work, and ensure tasks are completed according to the plans.
Committed to continuous improvement. You will contribute to advancing the work of your unit, the division, and the elections team by reviewing processes, adapting to changes in election laws, and identifying opportunities to improve.
A problem solver. You will need to identify issues and offer solutions to resolve them promptly.
Committed to public service. You will demonstrate your commitment by performing services in the public interest.
Adaptable. You will need to balance multiple projects and respond to changing priorities to ensure tasks are completed on time.
Knowledgeable and experienced in elections administration. You will need to demonstrate your understanding of the election process and timelines in the leadership of your unit.
What you will typically be responsible for:
Supervising and evaluating permanent and temporary staff
Arranging and overseeing your staff's work
Training staff and ensuring accurate work products using quality control practices
Participating in election planning, research, and decision making activities
Developing and updating processes and procedures to meet organizational needs
A few reasons you might love this job:
You will serve your community through public service
You will have the opportunity to work in a collaborative team environment
You will have a chance to be a part of democracy in action
You will be part of a highly respected elections team
You will develop competency and understanding of multiple election functions
A few challenges you might face in this job:
Legislation and regulations regularly change therefore processes and procedures need to be regularly updated
During peak election times the number of team members requiring training, managing, supervising increases significantly
Team expectations require supporting the work of other election functions

Competencies Required:
Coaching & Developing Others: Supporting others in stretching and expanding their capabilities
Building & Maintaining Relationships: Establishing rapport and maintaining mutually productive relationships
Displaying Ownership and Accountability: Holding self and others accountable for measurable high-quality, timely, and cost-effective results
Delegating: Sharing responsibility, authority, and accountability
Innovative Problem Solving: Identifying and analyzing problems in order to propose new ways to do business
Professional & Technical Expertise: Applying technical subject matter to the job
Leadership: Guiding and encouraging others to accomplish a common goal
Managing Performance: Ensuring superior individual and group performance
Writing: Communicating effectively in writing
Using Technology: Working with electronic hardware and software applications
Attention to Detail: Focusing on the details of work content, work steps, and final work products
Delivering Results: Meeting organizational goals and customer expectations and making decisions that produce high-quality results by applying technical knowledge, analyzing problems, and calculating risks
Handling Stress: Maintaining emotional stability and self-control under pressure, challenge, or adversity
To read the complete job description, please click here.


The eligible list established from this recruitment may remain in effect for six (6) months.

License Required:
Candidates must possess and maintain throughout the duration of employment a valid California Motor Vehicle Operator's License. Out of State valid Motor Vehicle Operator's will be accepted during the application's process.

Education:
Possession of a high school diploma, G. E. D. equivalency, or a high school proficiency certificate.

Experience:
Two (2) years of full-time, or its equivalent, experience in a public elections office performing activities to prepare for and conduct state and/or local elections and at least one (1) year of experience in a lead or supervisory capacity.

Substitution :
Completion of 60 semester or 90 quarter units of coursework from an accredited college or university, which included at least 12 semester or 18 quarter units from among the following courses: Public Administration, Business Administration, Political Science, or a closely related field may be substituted for one (1) year of the required experience in preparation for and conduct of state and local elections.


Desirable Qualifications:


CalPEAC and/or CERA certification
Fluency in Spanish or Chinese
Completion of management/supervisory classes or training
Lead experience in a warehouse environment
Fork-lift operator certification



Application Filing: All applicants must apply online at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/contracosta and submit the information as indicated on the job announcement by the final filing date.
Application Evaluation: Depending on the number of applications received, an Application Evaluation Board may be convened to evaluate and select the best-qualified candidates for invitation to the next phase of the examination.
Oral Exam Interview: (Weighted 100%) The Oral Exam Interviews will measure candidates' competencies as they relate to the job. In the Oral Exam Interviews, applicants must achieve an average passing score of 70% or higher on each of the Oral Exam Interview competencies, as well as an overall passing score of 70% of higher. The Qualifications Appraisal Board will evaluate candidates in job-related areas.
Final Selection Interviews: Scheduled for Week of September 27th.
Tentative Recruitment Timeline
Oral Exam Interviews: Week of August 23rd
Departmental Interviews: Week of September 27th


The Human Resources Department may change the examination steps noted above in accordance with the Personnel Management Regulations and accepted selection practices.

CONVICTION HISTORY
After you receive a conditional job offer, you will be fingerprinted, and your fingerprints will be sent to the California Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). The resulting report of your conviction history (if any) will be used to determine whether the nature of your conviction conflicts with the specific duties and responsibilities of the job for which you have received a conditional job offer. If a conflict exists, you will be asked to present any evidence of rehabilitation that may mitigate the conflict, except when federal or state regulations bar employment in specific circumstances. Having a conviction history does not automatically preclude you from a job with Contra Costa County. If you accept a conditional job offer, the Human Resources department will contact you to schedule a fingerprinting appointment.
 
DISASTER SERVICE WORKER
All Contra Costa County employees are designated Disaster Service Workers through state and local law. Employment with the County requires the affirmation of a loyalty oath to this effect. Employees are required to complete all Disaster Service Worker-related training as assigned, and to return to work as ordered in the event of an emergency.

EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
 It is the policy of Contra Costa County to consider all applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, ethnicity, age, disability, sexual orientation, gender, gender identify, gender expression, marital status, ancestry, medical condition, genetic information, military or veteran status, or other protected category under the law.

To find more information on Benefits offered by Contra Costa County, please go to https://www.contracosta.ca.gov/1343/Employee-Benefits


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        The purpose of the questionnaire is to provide applicants the opportunity to elaborate on their experience, education, and training for the Elections Services Supervisor position and to assist Human Resources staff in assessing each applicant's qualifications. Your responses to the questionnaire will be used to better understand your relevant experience, education, and training to determine which applicants will be invited to participate in the next step of the recruitment process. Do not answer any of the questions by indicating "see attached application or see resume."
        
        
                I understand
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Do you currently possess a high school diploma, G. E. D. equivalency, or a high school proficiency certificate?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Do you currently possess two (2) years of full-time, or its equivalent, experience in a public elections office performing activities to prepare for and conduct state and/or local elections and at least one (1) year of experience in a lead or supervisory capacity?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        If you answered "Yes" to the above question (question #3), please describe your experience in a public elections office performing activities to prepare for and conduct state and/or local elections.

If you answered "No," you can input "N/A."
        
        
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Do you currently possess the following:Completion of 60 semester or 90 quarter units of coursework from an accredited college or university, which included at least 12 semester or 18 quarter units from among the following courses: Public Administration, Business Administration, Political Science, or a closely related field may be substituted for one (1) year of the required experience in preparation for and conduct of state and local elections.
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        If you answered "Yes" to the above question (question #5), did you attach unofficial transcripts to your application demonstrating such courses?

If you answered "No," you can select the "N/A" option.
        
        
                Yes
                N/A
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        By checking this box, I am confirming that all statements made in this supplemental questionnaire and on the application are accurate and true; and I understand that misstatements or omissions of material facts will result in being rejected from this recruitment process, or released from future employment with Contra Costa County.
        
        
                I agree
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        