=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Director
Salary: $100,380.00 - $144,576.00 YEAR
Location: Boulder, CO, CO, 80302
Employer: Boulder County
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2021-07-27
Job Type: Full-time
Job Number: 3916(MR3)
Department: Clerk and Recorders Office
Division: CLK Elections
Opening Date: 07/28/2021
Closing Date: 8/16/2021 11:59 PM Mountain
FLSA: Exempt

BENEFITS:
  • a family-friendly workplace, including paid caregiver leave, a breast feeding friendly-work environment, sick child care, an infants-at-work policy, and generous paid vacation, medical leave, and holidays
  • the opportunity to take charge of your well-being through a nationally-recognized wellness program, employee assistance program, and the choice of comprehensive health plans that include vision and dental coverage
  • peace of mind for the future with PERA pension, PERA 401k, and Social Security retirement plans, in addition to life and disability insurance, as well as critical illness and accidental insurance options
  • the opportunity to master new skills with robust learning programs and certificates, federal loan forgiveness (after ten years of public service), and county-paid tuition assistance for continuing education
  • Free EcoPass that can be used any time and for commuting to and from work, to the Denver Intranational Airport and Fort Collins and on all bus and rail lines operated by RTD. Opportunity to sign up for a free BCycle membership for bike share in Boulder.

For more information about benefits, visit the Jobs page: https://bouldercounty.gov/jobs/jobs-benefits/

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===



About the division
The Boulder County Clerk and Recorder's Office has an opening for an Elections Director that serves at the pleasure of and reports directly to the elected Clerk and Recorder. The Elections Director position is within the Deputy of Elections job classification. The Elections Director is one of the office’s six Leadership Team members, third in command of the Clerk and Recorder organization and oversees a staff of twelve permanent Elections Staff members (and upwards of 600 election judges during certain election times).
 
The Elections Division provides comprehensive elections services for Boulder County, including voter records, voter services, ballot processing, technical and logistical support, and end-to end election administration. Commitment to building an inclusive, forward looking, continual improvement, and supportive work culture is required.  
 
About the team
The Elections Division is passionate about the work we do for democracy and we are committed to facilitating the most positive voting experience in the country. We set a high bar for fulfilling our commitment to voters in Boulder County, and we are a national award-winning organization with a reputation for excellence, innovation, accuracy and continual improvement.  
 
Commitment to ensuring we include historically excluded communities in our outreach and administration is vital to fulfilling our mission of facilitating democracy. This person must be committed to building a culture where individuals from any background can be successful, which includes ongoing work around disrupting patterns, systems, and behaviors of inequity and exclusion. This individual will be accountable for ensuring election operations are implemented with an equity lens and will support team members in creating and accomplishing their equity and inclusion goals, either with the public or with internal operations.
 
About the position
This position leads the team and is accountable for the execution of compliant, accurate, accessible and transparent elections for a county of nearly 250,000 voters. This position will ensure the integrity and accuracy of the election management processes in accordance with federal and state laws, Secretary of State rules and Clerk and Recorder policies.
 
The ideal candidate must have the ability and desire to serve the public and Boulder County, where we have a very engaged voting community and stakeholders. This person should have extensive experience and competency in planning, coordinating and implementing a portfolio of projects, including projects with use of data or technology that span multiple months with complicated steps and firm deadlines.     A background that includes budgeting, resource-conscious project management, technology, and leading a team through stressful, high-impact projects is necessary. In addition to teamwork and team leadership, this person will also act as an individual contributor on a variety of projects.
 
The ideal candidate is experienced with compliance related processes, a technology-heavy environment and can reference election statute and rule to ensure compliance. In addition to strong leadership and project management skills, the person in this role must want to develop and lead a team of 12 permanent staff and hundreds of temporary workers. This includes enrolling and inspiring the team to work in stressful, impactful environments during election times.
 
You must have work examples that represent your experience in both leading teams and managing projects. Systems thinking (structure, patterns, cycles) that includes use of technology, a focus on accuracy and adherence to timelines is critical as elections are dynamic and preparedness is essential. You must also be comfortable responding to the public and addressing questions about election administration. This includes providing them with accurate information and correcting misinformation.    
 
This position is expected to build strong working relationships with team members, vendors and stakeholders and be committed to Boulder County and Clerk and Recorder guiding values, including equity and inclusion.
 
 
This position will require overtime, nights and weekends during election season and is subject to periods of time when vacation scheduling is not allowed (because of the election calendar). This position will work out of the Boulder County Clerk and Recorder's Office, located at 1750 33rd St., Boulder, CO 80301. The Elections Director will work Monday-Thursday (10-hour day) 40 hours per week during non-election time; this includes both in-office and telecommuting options.  Under Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA), this position is exempt.


Boulder County requires its employees to reside in the state of Colorado as of the first day of work.

Hiring Salary Range: $89,256.00 - $128,544.00 Annually   
Classification Salary Range: $89,256.00 - $128,544.00 Annually 



Tentative Hiring Timeline:
Phone Screening: August 24th & 25th
First Round Interviews:  August 31st & September 1st
Second Round Interviews:  September 7th & 9th

The role is strategy, culture building, supervision, operations, project management and is leadership-focused, requiring ability to acquire the election knowledge needed through an onboarding process.  

Leadership and management


Lead a culture that is rooted in Clerk and Recorder values and proactively identify opportunities for values advancement. Efficiently and effectively problem solve, and course correct when necessary.   
Supervise staff and the workload of the division to ensure a full, equitable, and manageable workload across staff. 
Accountable for achieving outcomes of the Clerk and Recorder’s internal Organizational Accountability Program (OAP) in alignment with election cycle goals.
Daily responsibilities include senior-level management of the election’s organization. Includes supervising the direct work of three to four staff reports who also have supervisory duties. 
Performs managerial duties, including hiring, performance management, training and job role certification for Election Division staff. 
Work with the Elections Leadership Team on all matters regarding strategic planning, administration and conduct of elections, as well as legislative policies, including current and future impact.
Project Management and Operations 

Utilize project management skills and tools to coordinate the completion of all projects over the various phases of the election process.
Accountable for compliance with election statue and rule, county and division policies.
Oversees the development of the division’s annual budget; has fiscal oversight responsibilities and exercises efficient fiscal stewardship by authorizing and controlling expenditures within established allocations.
Ensure excellent, accurate and timely public service is provided. 
Incorporates systems thinking to help identify and lead change that supports continuous improvement.

Other duties

Attend classes and conferences to enhance knowledge of election statute and rule and election administration. Become a Colorado Certified Election Official and maintain credentials. 
Builds and maintains positive, professional working relationships with representatives from other departments, Colorado county election peers, vendors, stakeholders, political party chairs and community or business groups to gain their cooperation and support to further Election Division operational interests and objectives.
Resolves citizen concerns, complex and unusual election issues and other difficult situations. 
Maintains external awareness, monitoring of conditions, trends, innovations, and practices that may have implications for election administration improvements.
 
Perform additional duties as required.

PLEASE NOTE: When submitting your application be sure to include all relevant education and experience, as applications are screened based on the qualifications listed in this position announcement. Applications that do not appear to meet minimum qualifications, as outlined below, will not be considered. Resumes are not accepted in lieu of completed applications.


Please be aware that your cover letter and resume will not be accessed in the initial screening process, so you must complete your application and supplemental questions with as much detail as possible. Any personally identifiable information (PII) such as name and address will be redacted from applications that meet the minimum screening requirements and are forwarded to the hiring manager. If the hiring manager selects you to advance in the hiring process, your cover letter and resume will then be accessible to the hiring team.
 
EDUCATION & EXPERIENCE:
In this position, we are looking for a minimum of 8 years of combined education and experience, including at least two years in a supervisory capacity. For example:
Eight years of experience in leadership, project management, complex project planning and implementation that includes use of technology and data (hardware, software, applications, network, etc.), data-driven and resource-conscious decision-making, which includes at least two years in a supervisory capacity; OR
A bachelor's degree in Political Science, Business Administration, Organizational Leadership, Public Administration, or closely related field, plus four years of experience in leadership, project management, complex project planning and implementation that includes use of technology and data (hardware, software, applications, network, etc.), data-driven and resource-conscious decision-making, which includes at least two years in a supervisory capacity
DRIVER'S LICENSE:
Applicants must have a valid driver's license, a good driving record, and current automobile insurance
COVER LETTER:
All applicants must attach a cover letter explaining their interest in this position
BACKGROUND CHECK:
A job offer is contingent on passing a background investigation

PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS:
Experience in election administration is a plus, but not required
SCORE (Statewide Colorado Registration and Elections database) experience or voter database experience and knowledge of election law and process


KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, & ABILITIES:
Other skills include the ability to carefully read and apply statute and Secretary of State elections rules
Be able to self-motivate and work collaboratively with the ability to clearly communicate in both verbal and written form
Be willing to learn, have the capacity to set team goals, prioritize tasks, time block their calendar to get work done and effectively work with others toward outcomes
During election time must be comfortable working in a fast paced, changing and deadline driven environment
Extreme attention to processes and detail is required
Ability to become comfortable reading election law and rules and seeking out answers when needed
 
Boulder County is a family-friendly workplace dedicated to fostering a diverse, inclusive, and respectful environment for all employees. We prohibit unlawful discrimination against applicants and employees on the basis of race, color, religion, gender, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, socio-economic status, sexual orientation, genetic information, or any other status protected by applicable federal, state, or local law.



 