=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Executive Director
Salary: $114,933.00 - $178,168.00 YEAR
Location: Richland County, SC, 29250
Employer: State of South Carolina
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2021-08-05
Job Type: FTE - Full-Time
Job Number: 117321
Agency: Election Commission
Opening Date: 08/06/2021
Closing Date: 9/7/2021 5:00 PM Eastern
Agency Specific Application Procedures:: Please apply online.
Class Code:: UA01
Position Number:: 60013601
Normal Work Schedule:: Monday - Friday (8:30 - 5:00)
Pay Grade: Unclassified
Hiring Range - Min.: $114,933.00
EEO Statement: Equal Opportunity Employer
Veteran Preference Statement: South Carolina is making our Veterans a priority for employment in state agencies and institutions.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

The Executive Director is the chief executive officer of the State Election Commission and has the responsibility for the overall direction and management of the Agency, ensuring the mission, goals and objectives are accomplished. The Executive Director also serves as the chief state election official for the State.  The position has supervisory authority over county boards of voter registration and elections and is responsible for the oversight of the statewide voter registration system, conduct of elections, certification of election results, hearing election protests and appeals, statewide electronic voting system and administration of mandatory training and certification program for county election officials.
 
Duties


Provides supervisory authority over county boards of registration and elections.  Oversees statewide voter registration system, statewide voting system and other election related technologies used to conduct elections. Oversees a compliance audit program of county boards. 
Keeps commission members informed about election related matters, commission meetings, election certifications and protests and appeals.
Establishes policies and sets strategic direction of the agency.
Works with public and private partners to protect the state’s critical election infrastructure.
Ensures agency operates efficiently, cost effectively and according to state fiscal and human resources guidelines and state law. 
Oversees public relations and agency outreach efforts to ensure the agency maintains a positive public image.
Serves as liaison with General Assembly. Attends legislative meetings, presents testimony and budget requests. Represents the agency with advocacy groups, political parties, partners and other customers.
Oversees statewide training efforts for county and municipal election officials and poll workers.
Seeks opportunities for agency growth, innovation and improvement. 
 

   

Master’s degree in management, public administration or related field.
Ten years progressively responsible management or elections related work experience.
Strong interpersonal skills and the ability to communicate effectively in both verbal and written modes.
Extensive knowledge of state and federal election laws.
Education beyond a master’s degree may be substituted for a portion of required experience.
Must have the ability to obtain and maintain a federal security clearance.

 


       

Extensive knowledge of state and federal election laws.
Strong interpersonal and leadership skills.
Excellent written, verbal and presentation skills.
Expertise working with legislative issues including the development and passage of legislation, funding requests and associated matters.
Understanding of information technology, cyber security, security and incident response plans.  

Benefits for State Employees The state of South Carolina offers eligible employees generous benefits, including health and dental insurance; retirement and savings plan options; and paid vacation and sick leave. Plus, work-life balance programs such as telecommuting and flexible work schedules are available to employees of some state agencies. Insurance BenefitsEligible employees may enroll in health insurance, which includes prescription coverage and wellness benefits. Other available insurance benefits include dental, vision, term life insurance, long term disability and flexible spending accounts for health and child care expenses. Retirement BenefitsState employees are also offered retirement plan options, including defined benefit and defined contribution plans. Additionally, eligible employees may elect to participate in the South Carolina Deferred Compensation Program, which is a voluntary, supplemental retirement savings plan offering 401(k) and 457 plan options. Workplace BenefitsState employees may also be eligible for other benefits, including tuition assistance; holiday, annual and sick leave; and discounts on purchases, travel and more. Note: The benefits above are available to most state employees, with the exception of those in temporary positions. Employees in temporary grant and time-limited positions may be eligible for all, some or none of these benefits as benefits are associated with each position type. For these positions, contact the hiring agency to determine what benefits may be available.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Do you have a Master's degree or higher level of education?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Do you have at least ten years progressively responsible management or elections related work experience?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Describe how your education and work experience will benefit you in the position of Executive Director.
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        