=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Office Technician - Elections (Prescott)
Salary: $19.81 - $25.26 HOUR
Location: Elections - Prescott, AZ, AZ, 86305
Employer: Yavapai County Government
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2021-12-07
Job Type: Full Time - Non Exempt
Job Number: 202100455
Department: Elections
Opening Date: 12/08/2021
Closing Date: 1/31/2022 1:00 PM Arizona

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Under minimal supervision, provides administrative and technical support as it relates to developing, planning, and organizing the functions of the Elections Department to ensure compliance with State and Federal laws, and the Arizona Secretary of State's Elections Procedures Manual.

The following EXAMPLES OF DUTIES are NOT intended as a comprehensive list of job functions/duties performed by individuals assigned to this classification. The following provides a representative summary of the major duties and responsibilities. Incumbent(s) may not be required to perform all duties listed and/or may be required to perform additional, position-specific, duties.   

Recruit, interview, and train poll workers.
Develop poll worker education program and curriculum for online and in-person training. 
Process candidate, special district and committee forms and paperwork including accepting or rejecting candidate nomination papers and petitions.
Maintain databases for campaign finance reporting and send reminder and late notices. 
Lead election seasonal employees.
Communicate election information to various stakeholders by answering questions, explaining programs, and resolving complaints regarding election laws and procedures. 
Perform general office duties for the Elections Department, including ordering supplies, processing invoices, filing, and providing customer service.
Assist in developing policies, procedures, and long-term strategies.
Prepare detailed recommendations to management about new or modified laws, regulations, or policies.
Act as department web liaison - prepare, maintain, and update Internet/Intranet Elections web content information and ensure proper and timely publication. 
Supervise and staff Election Day call center.
Backup Elections Database Programmer, as needed.
Perform other job-related duties as assigned.

Experience: 
Two (2) years of professional level experience including one (1) or more of the following: administration of elections; project planning; extensive knowledge of adult learning theory; or an equivalent combination of training and experience.
Education: 
High school diploma or GED.
Other Requirements:

Must be a registered voter of Yavapai County.
Must possess a valid Arizona Driver’s License without restrictions.
Certified Arizona Election Officer (A.R.S. § 16-407) attainable within two years of hire.
Eligible to become a commissioned Arizona Notary.

Required Knowledge, Skills and Abilities:
Knowledge of:

Election laws and procedures
Adult learning theory.
Election equipment and systems.
Election audit methods.
Modern office practices, methods, computer equipment and applications related to the work.
ADA accessibility needs as it relates to Election administration.
Records management and retention requirements.
Skill in:
Spelling, vocabulary, grammar, and punctuation.
Advanced oral and written communication.
Project management. 
Intermediate math ability.
Time management. 
Critical thinking, decision making, and problem-solving.
Training small and large groups of adults.
Ability to:
Work without supervision.
Work extensive additional hours during preparation and conducting elections, to include weekends and holidays.  
Maintain strict confidentiality.
Remain neutral on political topics.
Maintain physical and cyber security.
Achieve 100% accuracy in Election administration.
Attend specialized elections training to remain current with election laws and procedures. 
Maintain budget guidelines and project future expenditures.
Troubleshoot issues to resolve problems promptly.
Maintain a professional, competent, accurate and dependable manner in all situations.
Maintain a good working relationship with outside agencies and other county departments.
Review, analyze and interpret state and federal laws and other requirements impacting elections.
Research codes, regulations, and legal opinions.
Work Environment:
The work environment is substantially associated with an office environment, occasionally with a light industrial warehouse environment or County vehicle. Work is performed in a climate controlled, safe, and secure work environment.
Physical Requirements:
Ability to stand or sit for extended periods.
Standing in and walking between work areas is frequently required.  
Ability to perform repetitive motions for extended periods. 
Extensive keyboard entry.
Capable of overhead lifting; ability to occasionally lift and carry items up to 50 pounds; push/pull materials up to 200 pounds with the use of assistive equipment.
Sit or stand while using a computer or other equipment.
Sufficient vision to read printed materials and a computer screen.
Hearing and speech ability to communicate effectively in person and telephonically.   
Capable of frequent repetitive movement of arms, fingers, and wrists.  
Preference will be given to applicants with experience in Access database creation and design.


EMPLOYEE BENEFITSYavapai County Government offers a comprehensive employee benefits package toFull-Time employees working 30 or more hours per week that includes but is not limited to:·  10 Holidays Per Year·  Annual Leave·  Employee Assistance Program (EAP)·  Health Care Insurance – Medical, Dental, Vision·  Life Insurance·  Long-Term & Short-Term Disability·  Retirement Plans·  Sick Leave·  Tuition Reimbursement Program ELECTIVE COVERAGE·  457 Deferred Compensation Program  ·  Dependent Health Care Insurance - Medical, Dental, Vision·  Flexible Spending Account (FSA)·  Health Savings Account (HSA)·  Short-Term Disability                                                                ·  Supplemental Life (for employees & dependents) PLEASE NOTE·      Part-Time, Temporary and Seasonal employees accrue Sick Leave based on hours worked.·      Part-Time employees have limited benefits available.·      Temporary and Seasonal employees are not eligible to accrue Annual Leave.Click here to view our benefits summary. (Download PDF reader) 


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Do you have a high school diploma or GED?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Do you have at least two (2) years of professional level experience including one or more of the following: administration of elections; project planning, prioritizing and scheduling; extensive knowledge of Election laws and procedures; extensive knowledge of adult learning theory; or an equivalent combination of training and experience?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        