=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Support Specialist - Elections
Salary: $27.56 - $36.94 HOUR
Location: Salem, OR, OR, 97309
Employer: Marion County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2021-12-17
Job Type: Full-time Regular
Job Number: 652-2021-3
Department: Clerk's Office
Division: Elections
Opening Date: 12/17/2021
Closing Date: 1/3/2022 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Non-Exempt
Bargaining Unit: 06

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

GENERAL STATEMENT OF DUTIES
Journey level classification of the Information Services series, which applies specialized knowledge in department wide, multiple software applications; conducts training sessions; assists in design, implementation, maintenance, and configurating of systems and applications, and recommend policy or procedural changes to ensure effectiveness and efficiency of systems; provides technical assistance in and facilitates the use of computer hardware and software for a department; and performs related work as required.

SUPERVISION RECEIVED
Works under the general supervision of a supervisor who assigns work, establishes goals, and reviews work for conformance to technical standards and compliance with department goals.

SUPERVISION EXERCISED
Supervision of other employees is not a responsibility of positions in this classification.

Provide technical assistance to three divisions of the Clerk's Department: elections, Recording and Board of Property Tax Appeal (BOPTA).
Assists users with problems, tracks program area problems and monitors system for efficiency and effectiveness; recommends procedural changes, hardware and/or software changes or enhancements; answers a variety of routine and complex computer related questions from users.
Researches and recommends the purchase of hardware and software; tests new software before implementation; installs computer software upgrades, performs some hardware maintenance and writes and maintains user documentation. 
Development, enhancements and updates to web sites for entire Clerk's Department (three divisions).
Programing, training and testing of proprietary election ballot software and maintenance, testing and operation of computer vote tally system. 
Production and printing of ballots and voter pamphlets.
Greeting public, phone and counter work, interprets election laws and rules for candidates, campaigns and the public, assists in voter registration file maintenance. Other tasks as assigned.
Electoral/Special districts mapping.
Assists candidates, campaign, districts and in office file maintenance with OCVR reports, queries files to produce special reports in office.
Programing, operating, training and assisting other operators on the use of:
(1) the ballot return envelope scanner/sorter, presently a Fluence Elevate Sorter and
(2) ballot envelope address printers, presently a Neopost/Quadient HD-CX 1600 with an Accufast P8 backup printer.
Participate in user groups for the Oregon Centralized Voter Registration and election management system (OCVR), the Fluence mail scanner sorter, the Hart Verity voting system, and the Oregon Association of County Clerks.
Trains and assists Election Board Workers on ballot scanning, adjudicating voter intent and other ballot handling procedures.
Operates a motor vehicle in the performance of duties; maintains a current Oregon Driver’s License and an acceptable driving record.
Maintains a valid driver's license for the purpose of conducting official election business; pickup and delivery of equipment and ballots from official ballot drop sites and post offices; retrieval of records from County archive building; attendance at conferences and meetings.
Other duties as assigned by supervisor.



Marion County offers a generous benefits package to regular employees working 50% or more of the regularly scheduled work week and their eligible dependents.  Temporary employees and part-time regular employees working less than 50% of the regularly scheduled work week are not eligible for benefits. Most regular positions in this classification are represented by Marion County Employees Association (MCEA).   For a summary of benefits, click here.  For a complete and detailed overview of the MCEA benefits package, click here, and select MCEA Benefits from the left menu or Marion County Employees Association (MCEA) from the page links.  Regular and temporary employees are represented by MCEA.Salary and benefits are subject to union contract negotiations and may change as a result.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        In order to receive credit for your supplemental questions, your answers must be supported by details in the education and/or work experience section of your application form.   Do you understand this statement?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        What is the highest level of education you have successfully completed?
        
        
                GED
                High school
                At least 1 year of college (31 semester or 45 quarter credits)
                Associate degree (62 semester or 90 quarter credits)
                At least 3 years of college (93 semester or 135 quarter credits)
                Bachelor's degree (124 semester or 180 quarter credits)
                Master's degree (155 semester or 225 quarter credits)
                Doctorate degree (186 semester or 270 quarter credits)
                None of the above
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Please specify area of study for college education.
        
        
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Indicate how many years or work experience you have with computer applications.  One year of work experience is equal to 2080 hours.
        
        
                Less than 1 year
                1 year to less than 2 years
                2 years to less than 3 years
                3 years to less than 4 years
                4 years or more
                None of the above
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Select the computer software with which you are proficient and with which you have at least 1 year of full-time work experience.
        
        
                Microsoft Word
                Microsoft Excel
                Microsoft SharePoint
                Microsoft PowerPoint
                Microsoft Visio
                Groupwise E-mail
                Groupwise Calendar
                Other (Specify in next question)
                None of the above
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        List any software (not listed in the previous question) with which you are proficient and have at least 1 year of full-time work experience. Write NA in the box if this question does not apply to you.  Experience listed in this answer must be supported by the education and/or work experience in your application.  "See resume" is not an acceptable answer.
        
        
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Describe your experience using an Election system. Include the name of the system and your role using or supporting the system. Put N/A if you have not experience using an Election system.
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        