=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: In Person Absentee Coordinator
Salary: $48,722.00 - $66,276.00 YEAR
Location: North Charleston, SC, SC, 29405
Employer: Charleston County Government
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2021-12-20
Job Type: Full-Time
Job Number: EV207017
Department: Board of Voter Registration & Elections
Opening Date: 12/21/2021
Closing Date: 1/25/2022 11:59 PM Eastern

BENEFITS:
  • Health, Dental, Vision and Life Insurance
  • Optional Life and Disability Insurance
  • Optional Medical and Dependent Care Spending Accounts
  • Annual and Sick Leave
  • Thirteen (13) recognized Holidays
  • South Carolina Retirement System (SCRS) State Retirement Plan
  • Police Officers Retirement System (PORS - as applicable)
  • Optional Deferred Compensation Program
  • Longevity and Merit Pay Increases
  • Optional Federal Credit Union Membership
  • Leadership, Professional and Skill Development Training
  • Employee Assistance Program
  • Employee Well-being Program

For more information, visit our
benefits page
.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

All Charleston County Employees, as a condition of employment must be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 and provide their vaccination card.

 

This is a managerial position that provides supervision in the daily operation and management of the front of the office, in-person absentee voting, and candidate filing.  Supervises both permanent and temporary employees during in-person absentee voting for elections. Responsible for management of each satellite absentee location, as well as hiring/training absentee poll workers.

 

Provides operational supervision of voting processes from the deployment of voting equipment to receipt and security in absentee voting.




Hiring Salary Range:  $48,722 - $66,276 (Estimated Annual Salary)




APPLICATION PROCESS & DEADLINE: Submitted applications are reviewed by the hiring department, on a going basis, prior to the APPLICATION DEADLINE OF: OPEN UNTIL FILLED

Essential Duties and Responsibilities:

*           Supervises the daily operations of the In-Person Absentee Voting division and oversees the work production and quantity and quality of work completed.  Supervises election planning and scheduling and develops and implements policies and procedures. 

*           Supervises, trains, and evaluates the in-person absentee voting specialists and temporary staff. Performs supervisory responsibility including work assignments, working hours, and training.  Evaluates performance of staff.

*           Coordinates Satellite Voting Unit use in municipal, statewide, and special elections.

*           Supervises the selection of in-person absentee voting sites and prepares correspondence sent to each potential location.   

*           Supervises the preparation of supplies and materials for each in-person absentee voting site.  

*           Supervises the selection of in-person absentee voting poll workers and off-site managers. Corresponds with in-person absentee voting poll workers. 

*           Develops and maintains training materials for in-person absentee voting poll workers.  

*           Manages the daily digital imaging of voter applications, boxing, storage, and archiving of in-person absentee voting records in accordance with statutory requirements.

*           Supervises the preparation and execution of daily statistical reports during the in-person absentee voting period.  Tracks statistical data for each election.  Prepares materials responsive to open records requests related to in-person absentee voting.

*           Research and resolve questions, problems, or inquiries from staff, citizens, and stakeholders.

*           Provides oversight for candidate filing, petition management, and any inquiries of potential candidates.

*           Oversees failsafe voting on Election Day at our office.

Preferred Qualifications:

*           Bachelor’s Degree in Political Science, Communications, or related field.

*           Three (3) or more years’ of elections experience with a focus on management.

*           Demonstrated ability to manage and prioritize during critical deadlines     

The following is expected with the position:

*           Ensures the integrity of in-person absentee voting

*           Develops and establishes goals, strategies, and priorities for absentee early in person voting and the front of the     office management

*           Provides project management oversight for special projects and key initiatives

*           Provides policy and strategic advice to Executive Director on expansion of absentee voting

*           Supervises, evaluates, and develops division staff

*           Manages candidate filing, petitions, failsafe voting, and other duties as assigned

*           Participates as an active member in the Board of Elections, working collaboratively with other management team members to advance the goals and priorities of the office