=== JOB DETAILS ===

Salary: $29.51 - $37.33 Hourly
Location: Tacoma, WA
Job Type: Career Service - Full Time
Job Number: 18-00467
Department: Auditor
Division: Auditor-Elections
Opening Date: 11/30/2018
Closing Date: 1/30/2019 12:00 AM Pacific

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

OPEN UNTIL FILLED
 First consideration will be given to
 applications received on/or before December 17, 2018

This recruitment may be used to fill future Elections Specialist vacancies. 

About the Division
The Pierce County Auditor's Office is responsible for elections, licensing services, public records and animal control services.

The Auditor's Elections Division maintains voter registration rolls, conducts federal, state and local elections, verifies petition signatures, publishes a local Voters' Pamphlet, and maintains precinct lines after redistricting. Pierce County has half a million registered voters and conducts four elections each year. The Elections Division serves 114 jurisdictions (boundary lines, voter assignment, elections) and files candidates for over 500 elected offices.
In what used to be filled with peaks and valleys, the work of Pierce County Elections is consistently 24/7 ­action-packed and exciting. Whether it is Election Day or another day of the year, effort is being made to continuously improve the voter experience and the technology of elections. We're a workplace family that cares more than just about the daily grind. We are proud of the work we do! It's award-winning and well-respected throughout Washington State.

The Auditor's Office is currently recruiting for an Elections Specialist position that is assigned to the Ballot Processing area.

This position is located at the Pierce County Elections Center in Tacoma, WA.  The typical work schedule is Monday through Friday from 8:00 am to 5:00 pm. An employee in this class is responsible for planning, organizing, directing, and evaluating the activities of an assigned election area. This is a working specialist position. Work involves planning, distributing, assigning work to accommodate work fluctuations and changes; monitoring work compiled; taking corrective action to maintain acceptable quality standards; and training election workers assigned to work in their particular areas. Specialists perform day­-to-­day assignments specific to their assigned area. Employees are expected to perform work in all election areas as assigned including customer service and voter registration.

Essential Functions:

Prepares for an election following all Revised Codes of Washington (RCWs) and Washington Administrative Codes (WACs) and County Code addressing election activities
Conducts vote by mail elections
Coordinates and participates in the activities of a specialty in the Elections Division
Determines work schedules and methods to expedite workflows; issues instructions; and monitors work for accuracy and compliance to procedures and policies in specialty area assigned
Recruits, trains, assigns, and schedules election part-time team workers
Enters and validates time entry for part-time workers
Operates mechanical equipment (includes scanners, mail sorting equipment and other postal equipment)
Maintains regular, predictable, and punctual attendance during regularly scheduled work hours at assigned work site
Performs Election Clerk 2 functions as needed
Performs the physical requirement of the position
Works a flexible schedule which may include evenings, weekends, holidays and overtime
Operates personal computers, software (Microsoft Office Suite, Voter Registration and other specialized software) and related office or specialized equipment

Ballot Processing Responsibilities:
Schedules and trains extra hire staff
Supervises ballot processing
Oversees Ballot Duplication Process
Oversees Signature Verification Process
Manages Election Observer Program
Coordinates deliveries and pickups within the Post Office
Tracks challenged ballots and communication with voters
Manages the opening, visual scan, and preparation of ballots to be tabulated
Prepares ballots to be canvassed

This announcement is not intended to reflect all duties to be performed by our team members, but shall present a descriptive list of the range of duties that may be performed.  To view the complete classification, click here. 

Minimum Requirements to Apply:

Four years of general clerical experience required. Additional education or related experience may be substituted equally for the recruiting requirements.

Preferred Qualifications:
Two years Elections related experience
Experience working in a lead or supervisory role and Certification as an Elections Administrator under (WAC) and (RCW) regulations
Proficiency in Microsoft Word, Excel and Access as well as experience working with databases
Experience with voter registration systems
Bilingual

Special Requirements and/or Qualifications: A valid Washington State driver's license may be required when travel is required of the position. 

Special Note: Employees in this class may be limited as to vacation during the primary and general election season and will be required to work extended hours, on-call, or alternate hours during an election cycle.

To be considered for this opportunity please:
 Complete and submit an online Pierce County Employment Application by selecting "APPLY" above or go to:   www.piercecountywa.org/jobs. 

If you do not have internet access, you may visit your local public library or any WorkSource location and use their computers.
Individuals needing accommodation in the application, testing process or need this job announcement in an alternative format may call Human Resources at (253) 798-7480, at least two days prior to the need. 

This is a competitive selection process.  Your application form will be reviewed and evaluated for the quality and quantity of education/experience in the areas listed.  Applicants whose qualifications most closely correspond to the County's needs will be eligible for further consideration.  Notification of application status normally occurs 4 to 6 weeks after the closing date.  Short notice may be given to applicants to participate in further selection processes which may include written, oral and performance examinations, and final interviews. 
 
As an Equal Employment Opportunity Employer, Pierce County welcomes a diverse workforce.  Pierce County does not discriminate based on race, creed, religion, color, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, marital status, age, disability, veteran status, the presence of any sensory, mental, or physical disability, or the use of a trained guide dog or service animal by a disabled person.

Employee benefits are not just about the kind of services you get, they are also about how much you may have to pay out of pocket. Pierce County offers a competitive benefits package that offers flexibility and peace of mind.We understand that your life revolves around more than just your career and that your priority is making sure that you and your family maintain health and financial security. That's why choice is a key component of our benefits package. We have a selection of health and retirement plans, paid leave, staff training and other compensation benefits that you can mix and match to meet your current and future needs.Our benefits:Vacation (Annual Leave)After approximately six months, employees receive six days of vacation leave. Since we value your experience, the amount of vacation you can accrue increases the longer you work with us. Vacation accrues on a bi-weekly basis for full-time employees as follows:Vacation Accruals:During years 1-3, 12 DaysDuring years 4-7, 16 DaysDuring years 8-13, 20 DaysDuring years 14-18, 23 DaysDuring years 19, 24 DaysDuring years 20, 25 DaysDuring years 21, 26 DaysDuring years 22, 27 DaysDuring years 23, 28 DaysDuring years 24, 29 DaysDuring years 25 & thereafter, 30 DaysA maximum of 45 days may be carried from one year into the next.Pro-Rated for Part-Time based on % of 1.0 FTE.Military Leave:Pierce County has a proud history of supporting the armed forces and provides members of the armed forces with up to 21 days paid military leave per state fiscal year.Holidays:Some full-time employees are entitled to ten paid holidays as follows:   New Year's Day - January 1Martin Luther King, Jr's birthday - Third Monday in JanuaryPresident's Day - Third Monday in FebruaryMemorial Day - Last Monday in MayIndependence Day - July 4Labor Day - First Monday in SeptemberVeteran's Day - November 11Thanksgiving Day - Fourth Thursday in November & Friday afterChristmas Day - December 25Personal Holidays:Regular full-time and regular part-time employees also receive two additional paid personal holidays. Each paid personal holiday accrues on January 1 of each year and must be taken during the calendar year in which it was accrued.Furlough:Some Pierce County employees may be designated to receive 10 "furlough" days per year in lieu of holidays. Furlough days are available for use on January 1 and must be scheduled and taken within the calendar year. Employees who leave employment with Pierce County must reimburse the employer for used furlough days based upon the number of remaining holidays.Sick Leave:Sick leave accrues on a bi-weekly basis, at the rate of one day per month.Insurance Benefits:Employees and families are covered by medical (including vision), dental and basic life insurance.  There are multiple medical plans with very affordable monthly premiums that offer coverage throughout Pierce County.  Employees are eligible to enroll each year in a flexible spending plan, which enables them to use tax-deferred dollars toward their health care and dependent care expenses.  Employees also have the opportunity to participate in supplemental life and long term disability insurance plans.   To view premium rates, summary of benefit coverage, and other information, please visit the Pierce County Health Benefits website.Retirement and Deferred Compensation:Pierce County employees are members of the State of Washington's Department of Retirement System (DRS) and depending on the position or previous DRS enrollment will be able to enroll in one of many programs DRS offers.  For additional information, check out the Department of Retirement Systems' web site.Employees also have the ability to participate in the Nationwide Deferred Compensation Plan.  This is a supplemental retirement savings program  that allows you control over the amount of pre-tax salary dollars you defer as well as the flexibility to choose between multiple investment options.Social Security:All Pierce County employees are covered by the federal Social Security and Medicare systems. The county and the employee pay an equal amount into the system.Miscellaneous Benefits:Please visit Pierce County's Benefits website for more information.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        How many years of general office/clerical experience do you have?
        
        
                None
                Less than 1 year
                1 year to less than 2 years
                2 years to less than 3 years
                3 years to less than 4 years
                4 years to less than 6 years
                6 years to less than 10 years
                10 or more years
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Please select your highest level of completed education.
        
        
                High School Diploma/GED
                Associate's Degree
                Bachelor's Degree
                Master's Degree
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have working in Elections?
        
        
                Less than 2 years
                2 years to less than 5 years
                5 years to less than 10 years
                10 or more years
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Detail your Elections experience, specifically involving ballot processing. Provide name of jurisdiction, number of registered voters, tasks performed and areas of responsibility. If none, type "N/A".
        
        
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Are you certified as a Washington State Elections Administrator?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have working in a lead or supervisory role?
        
        
                Less than 2 years
                2 years to less than 5 years
                5 years to less than 10 years
                10 or more years
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Select all software programs in which you have experience and are proficient in.
        
        
                Microsoft Word
                Microsoft Excel
                Microsoft Powerpoint
                Microsoft Access
                Voter Registration Software (DIMS, DFM, VOTEC, WEI, other)
                Voter Tabulation Software (Clear Ballot, ES&S, Dominion, HART, other)
                GIS Software (ESRI, ARCGIS, GE Smallworld, other)
                None of the above
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        This position requires the ability to juggle multiple projects and priorities within very specific and in some cases, legally defined timelines and deadlines; shifting priorities in a moment's notice. Describe your methods of organizing and prioritizing projects and how your skills, abilities and previous work experience demonstrate your ability to meet these challenges.
        
        
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        The Elections Division is one of the most visible agencies under ever increasing public scrutiny. Professionalism and integrity are imperative to the successful conduct of elections. Describe your prior experience working with the public in a professional setting and how you ensure professionalism in your work.
        
        
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        Describe your experience coordinating the work of others to meet specified deadlines. This should include scheduling and capacity variation experience.
        
        
        
    


    
        

11

    

    
        Please list training experience. This should include training formats, systems used, size of classes, and frequency.
        
        
        
    


    
        

12

    

    
        Describe your communication experience to include inside/outside organization, formats, frequency, and importance.
        
        
        
    


    
        

13

    

    
        Employees in this position may be limited as to vacation time off during the primary and general election season, may be placed "on-call", and will be required to work a flexible schedule, which may include evenings, weekends, holidays, and overtime. Are you willing and able to work as within these parameters?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        