=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Specialist - Absentee Voting
Salary: $20.95 - $27.23 HOUR
Location: Jacksonville, NC, NC, 28540
Employer: Onslow County
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2026-05-06
Job Type: Full-Time
Job Number: 417000040 MAY 2026
Department: Board of Elections
Opening Date: 05/07/2026
Closing Date: 5/21/2026 11:59 PM Eastern

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Performs intermediate skilled administrative support work facilitating all aspects of the absentee voting process, and related work as apparent or assigned. Work is performed under the close supervision of the Elections Director.

Our core values—Resilience, Excellence, Accountability, Customer Service, and Honesty—are the foundation of our work and the standard by which we operate. As a member of our team, you are expected to demonstrate these values in every aspect of your role. This means delivering high-quality work, taking responsibility for your actions, providing exceptional service, and maintaining integrity in all interactions. Your commitment to these principles is essential to fostering a positive workplace culture and ensuring the success of our organization and the community we serve. 

Qualification Requirements:
To perform this job successfully, an individual must be able to perform each essential function satisfactorily. The requirements listed below are representative of the knowledge, skill, and/or ability required. Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions.

Mandatory night and weekend work is required during active election cycles.

Coordinates all Absentee Voting processes for both civilian domestic Absentee by Mail, and Military/Overseas Absentee by mail, including UOCAVA, FWAB/FCPA, & VIP
Maintains supplies and equipment necessary for Absentee Voting
Provides customer service to in-person absentee voters and addresses any conflicts.
Coordinates vote-by-mail mailings
Oversees the receipt of absentee by mail ballot
Prepares received absentee ballots for the County Board of Election prior to each Absentee Board Meeting, including producing necessary reports and documentation
Maintains proper storage and custody of all Absentee materials, including voted ballots
Participates in all Absentee Board Meetings and all County Canvass related Board Meetings
Prepares Absentee materials for public review in accordance with NC Gen Statutes and NCSBE numbered memos and supervises any such activity
Assists with processing timesheets/payroll for Election Officials
Assists with office finance duties such as paying invoices, reconciling PCards, requesting Purchase orders and creating requisitions in MUNIS.
Performs assigned functions as a Disaster Ready Team (DRT) member, if appointed or volunteer. 
Performs related tasks as required.

Knowledge of federal, state, and local election laws; knowledge of the election process; knowledge of office practices and procedures; rigorous attention to detail; skill in the use of office equipment; skill in interpersonal communication; skill in providing clear directions to assigned staff and evaluating work; skill in communicating both verbally and in writing; skill in the use of basic business math; ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships with others; ability to use computers and related software programs; ability to handle customer relations and conflict resolution with tact and diplomacy; ability to prioritize tasks; ability to access information or to explain programs and policies; ability to interpret and apply regulations, policies, and procedures; ability to maintain records, logs, and special reports; ability to manage time, meet deadlines, and expeditiously perform multiple tasks; ability to work with sensitive information and maintain confidentiality; ability to work in a fast paced and quickly changing work environment; ability to follow oral and written instructions.

High school diploma or GED and one year of experience working in a Board of Elections Office, or an equivalent combination of education and work experience. Bachelor's degree in public administration, business, or related field preferred. 

Special Requirements:

Must possess a current driver's license.
Must be certified as a Notary Public or willing to take necessary steps to obtain within 6 months and maintain certification.


Salary will be determined by candidate's qualifications, budget, market, and internal equity.