=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Deputy Director of Voter Service
Salary: $93,217.00 - $149,147.00 YEAR
Location: 80204, CO, CO, 80202
Employer: City and County of Denver
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2018-01-15
Job Type: Unlimited Regular
Job Number: 49510 17245
Department: Election Division
Opening Date: 01/16/2018
Closing Date: 1/23/2018 11:59 PM Mountain

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===



The secret is out: Denver is the nation's top place to live, work, and play.  Being the best place to live isn't easy; maintaining such a reputation means we need the best people working for the residents of Denver: people who want to make a difference, give back, be at the heart of this city, and have a hand in creating our future.  When you join us, you will employ your unique skills to do important and meaningful work critical to the success of both your organization and the city as a whole.  Be a part of the city that you love. Where Denver Works. 
 

Denver Elections Division
Mission Statement
 

"To conduct Denver's elections in a fair, accurate, accessible, secure transparent and efficient manner; to educate and encourage the public to participate in voting process; and to maintain accurate voter registration and election records."


The City and County of Denver's Elections Division has an opening for a Deputy Director of Voter Services. This position is instrumental in our office's duty to plan and conduct successful elections for City and County of Denver voters. The objective of this position is to coordinate and manage the day to day activities of the voter services team.
 
We are passionate about the work we do for democracy and the residents of the City and County of Denver and we're looking for someone who's equally passionate about this work!

Some of the day to day:

Plans, organizes, and directs the work of the department staff in all aspects of elections held in Denver in accordance with federal, state, and local laws.

Plan and manage the customer experience and service functional areas; manage voter outreach activities; oversee the voter registration process and the maintenance of registration files; estimate personnel requirements and resources for varying work projects; communicate the need for resources to accomplish established objectives;

Plan and manage various phases of the election process, including but not limited to: preparing election calendars and department work plans; creating official notices to voters; preparing and ordering official ballot materials; issuing and processing of mail ballots; managing election procedures including the voter process; establishing key performance metrics and indicators; post-election reconciliation activities; registration list maintenance; ensure the training materials are accurate and effective; and look for ways to continuously improve processes, procedures, and policies to more effectively deliver election services.

Assigns, directs and supervises activities of election team members, ensuring enforcement of a myriad of statutory mandates, directives, policies, procedures and standards, appropriate delivery of service to customers; and ensure fiscal responsibility in all aspects of the voter services division.


Hiring Range: The target hiring range for this position is the base of the pay grade salary up to $97,000.

Our ideal candidate will possess the following preferred qualifications:
 
The ideal candidate must have the ability, the desire, and the enthusiasm to serve the public and the City and County of Denver.  The ideal candidate is committed and dedicated to public service and innovative in developing solutions to better serve voters.

Must be experienced in supervision, motivating and leading employees to success, and must be a team-orientated individual.

Previous election management experience is highly preferred.

Knowledge of the federal and state laws relating to elections, voter rights, and related rules and regulations.

Must demonstrate ability to supervise and lead teams in providing excellent service and project results within statute driven deadlines.

Other skills include creation and implementation of ideas and processes that are forward thinking; be self-motivated, team oriented and an excellent communicator in both verbal and written form.

Certification/Training/Experience in Lean methodologies. 

Exceptional Project Management experience.

Experience with Power BI or similar data visualization systems.
 

We know that your time is valuable. So please do not apply unless you have the following minimum qualifications:
 
Education Requirement:
 
Bachelor's Degree in a related field based on a specific position(s).
 
Experience Requirement:
 
Three years of experience at the type and level of functional and/or operational management (comparable to at least "Manager" in the City's internal management classification series).
 
Education/Experience Equivalency:
 
Two (2) years of the appropriate type and level of experience may be substituted for each required year of post-high school education.  (For example, if a Baccalaureate Degree is required, eight years of relevant experience can be substituted.)
 
A relevant Master's Degree may substitute for up to one year of the experience requirement.
 
Licensure and/or Certification:
 
By position, possession of a valid Colorado Class "R" Driver's license at the time of application or within six months of probation.
 
Completion of new manager training program prior to the end of probation.
 


Classification Title: We call this position a Deputy Director of Voter Services. The official job classification is Director CA2758. 

Pay range: $91,224 to $145,958

Hiring Range: The target hiring range ror this position is the base of the pay grade salary up to $97,000.


Assessments/Testing: This position does not require an assessment.

Pre-employment Screening: An offer of employment is contingent on the verification of credentials and other information required by law and City and County of Denver policies, including the successful completion of a background check. Candidates must pass a criminal background check and other verifications required for the position which may include, but are not limited to, employment and/or education verification, motor vehicle record check, drug test, and/or physical. The existence of a conviction does not automatically disqualify an individual from employment except where federal or state law or regulations prohibit employment of an individual with certain convictions. For more information about the selection and employment screening process, click here.
 

Probationary Period: This position may require the selected candidate to complete at least a six-month probationary period prior to attaining career status with the City & County of Denver. For more information about the probationary period, click here
 
The City and County of Denver provides equal employment opportunities to all employees and applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, genetic information, age, or any other status protected under federal, state, and/or local law.  

Recruiter: TS

To view the City and County of Denver's robust benefit package that only a multiple-industry employer can offer click the link below.www.DenverGov.org/Benefits


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        We are very happy to receive an application from you! We are curious to know what motivated you to apply for the opportunity to direct our Voter Services organization?
        
        
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        This job is all about innovation. We would love for you to tell us a bit more about a specific time you have incorporated innovation in to your day to day work.
        
        
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Please tell us about the most successful team you have directly lead. What made them successful? How did you directly influence their success?
        
        
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Do you have a minimum of three years of management experience?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Do you have direct, professional experience in the the planning or management of a federal, state, and/or local election?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Please describe your direct, professional experience in the the planning or management of a federal, state, and/or local election.
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        