=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Deputy of Elections
Salary: $111,321.60 - $135,304.00 YEAR
Location: Woodland, CA, CA, 95695
Employer: County of Yolo
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2025-08-04
Job Type: At Will
Job Number: 2025-00132
Department: Assessor/Clerk-Recorder/Elections
Division: Elections
Opening Date: 08/04/2025
Closing Date: 1/19/2026 11:59 PM Pacific

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

The County of Yolo is recruiting to fill one (1) regular, full-time Deputy of Elections position at the Assessor/Clerk-Recorder/Elections Department (ACE) in the Elections Branch. 

Hiring Incentive
A first-time external candidate hired for the Deputy of Elections position during Fiscal Year 2025/2026 is eligible for $10,000 in financial incentive payments! (1/3rd paid after 2 pay periods of employment, 1/3rd paid after 13 pay periods of employment, and 1/3rd paid after 26 pay periods of employment, per the ACE Hiring Incentive Program.)

The Position
Under administrative direction of the Assessor/Clerk-Recorder/Registrar of Voters, the Deputy of Elections assists the Assessor/Clerk-Recorder/Registrar of Voters in the planning, administration, direction, and coordination of the Elections Branch; develops and implements program policy, procedures, and strategic initiatives; oversees major program areas and ensures compliance with applicable laws and regulations; assists the Assessor/Clerk-Recorder/Registrar of Voters with the administration and direction of the department; and may serve as an Assessor/Clerk-Recorder/Registrar of Voters designee or in their absence.

An ideal candidate is a highly adaptable and meticulous elections professional with proven leadership experience navigating the rapid pace and strict deadlines of election administration. They possess strong technical skills and a proactive approach to problem-solving, ensuring the accurate and timely execution of all election-related duties. 

In addition, the following knowledge and abilities are associated with this position.

Knowledge of:
Principles and practices of management, including planning, organizational design, project/program management, and organizational effectiveness
Principles and practices of supervision, discipline, leadership, mentoring, and training
Federal, state, and local laws, codes, and regulations related to Elections functions
Operational characteristics, services, and activities of assigned programs and functions
Principles and practices of effective budget preparation and administration
Statistical analysis methods
Office procedures, methods, and equipment including computers and applicable software applications such as word processing, spreadsheets, databases, and other specialized applications related to area of assignment
English usage, spelling, grammar, and punctuation
Ability to:
Provide exceptional service
Communicate clearly and concisely, both verbally and in writing
Interpret and apply applicable federal, state, and local laws, codes, and regulations
Interpret, evaluate, and summarize a variety of data, information, and issues, and resolve complex problems through analytical thinking
Exercise discretion and maintain confidentiality of information
Work independently, prioritize work, coordinate activities, adjust to emergent demands and meet critical deadlines
Take responsibility for their own actions and build trust through reliability and authenticity
Advocate for County and Department policies, programs, ideals, and goals
Generate excitement, enthusiasm, and commitment for the vision of the County, Department, and assigned Branch
Coach and develop employees and lead teams toward a common goal
Develop and maintain cooperative, effective working relationships with others
How To Apply
Interested applicants are encouraged to submit a County of Yolo online employment application with attached verification of education documents and complete responses to the required supplemental questions, by the listed closing date. For additional important and detailed information, see the Application & Selection Process section of this job announcement.

Duties may include, but are not limited to, the following:
Formulates, revises, and implements department short- and long-range goals, objectives, policies, and priorities of the assigned programs, policy, operating practices and procedures, and program planning activities including legislative mandates, rulemaking policy, ensuring consistency with statewide guidelines and advocacy for the department; and interprets and explains policy to staff and the public.
In coordination with the Department Head, leads the development, implementation, and administration of the annual budget; and monitors and analyzes revenues and expenditures to ensure alignment with fiscal goals and regulatory requirements throughout the fiscal year.
Identifies opportunities for improving service delivery methods and procedures; identifies resource needs; obtains approval for improvements as needed/required; implements improvements.
Manages and responds to complex, sensitive assignments and assists in solving difficult problems, including effectively interacting with media and addressing Public Records Act requests; responds to and resolves difficult and sensitive inquiries and complaints from voters, candidates, and the public regarding voter registration, voting procedures, and election results.
Manages daily operations, resources, and logistics of Elections specific functions and programs, ensuring accuracy and compliance
Researches and applies federal, state, and local election laws, rules, and regulations to daily operations, while also assisting in the review and implementation of operational procedures to enhance efficiency and compliance within the Elections branch.
Plans, directs, and coordinates the primary functions and complex technical tasks of the Election Branch, related public service functions, and voter registration, including processing applications, maintaining voter files, and ensuring data accuracy and compliance with state and federal regulations.
Assists in the comprehensive preparation, proofreading, and distribution of official ballots, voter information guides, sample ballots, and all other necessary election materials.
Assists with the accurate tabulation and reporting of election results, encompasses post-election reconciliation and audit processes, and maintains detailed records while preparing various reports related to voter registration and ballot counts.
Collects, reviews, and analyzes data; prepares departmental analytical and statistical summaries and reports on operations and activities.
Analyzes and revises systems, forms, work procedures, and records management systems for efficiency and conformance to changes in industry practices, legislation, and local rules; and coordinates the maintenance and use of mandated forms, procedures, and rules.
Develops standards and controls to monitor and ensure the degree of compliance in assigned programs and operations including service delivery and maintenance of detailed records while preparing various reports.
Manages the logistics for polling places, vote centers, and election-day operations, which includes identifying locations, preparing supplies, arranging equipment delivery, and assisting with the programming, testing, and maintenance of voting equipment and election management systems for accuracy and compliance.
Provides strategic oversight of internal audits, ensuring consistent application of laws and procedures, compliance with statutory requirements, and advancement of continuous operational improvement.
Reviews, analyzes, conducts, and coordinates special research projects, studies, and program processes or activities including researching and interpreting complex internal, local, and state policy issues, regulations, and legislation to determine operational impact and areas of improvement and prepare related written reports.
Directly or through supervisory staff, recommends or selects new office personnel; supervises, motivates, and evaluates assigned personnel; provides or coordinates staff training, planning of work, setting of schedules, and development of controls to ensure that short- and long-range goals are accomplished; provides guidance on personnel and disciplinary matters, works with employees to correct deficiencies, and implements discipline. 
Provides essential training and support to temporary election workers, poll workers, and volunteers on election procedures and equipment operation, and may act as a lead worker providing guidance to clerical staff on specific projects.
Leads public engagement and executes comprehensive community outreach, serving as a department liaison to foster positive public relations and connect residents with essential services through presentations, materials, and direct engagement.
Serves as a strategic liaison across departmental branches, County departments, external agencies, and the public to align priorities, resolve complex issues, and support organizational goals; may represent the department before boards, commissions, meetings, organizations, and the general public.
Performs related duties as assigned.

Review the full position description by clicking here. 
Note: The Deputy Clerk-Recorder / Elections class specification is used for positions in both the Clerk-Recorder Branch and Elections Branch. This bulletin is advertising for a position in the Elections Branch of the Yolo County Assessor/Clerk-Recorder/Elections Department.

The minimum qualifications required for a candidate to proceed in the selection process are as follow:

Education: Graduation from an accredited college or university with major coursework in Accounting, Economics, Business Administration, Public Administration, Government, or a closely related field (verification of education documentation required, see the Application & Selection Process section of this job announcement); AND
Experience: Three (3) years of full-time paid experience performing professional, supervisory, and/or management work within a County Clerk Recorder and/or Elections department; including experience overseeing professional Clerk-Recorder/Elections staff.
Substitution: Additional years of experience as defined above may substitute for the required education on the basis of one year of experience is equivalent to thirty (30) semester or forty five (45) quarter units.
License: Positions in this classification require incumbents to possess and maintain a valid California driver's license, Class C or higher, to carry out job related duties. Individuals who do not meet this requirement due to a physical or mental disability may request a reasonable accommodation.

Application Process
It is highly recommended that you print this job bulletin for future reference. Application information must be current, concise, related to the requirements in this job announcement. Your application should highlight all relevant education, training, and experience, and clearly indicate how you meet the minimum qualifications for the position as of the date of your submission. 

Incomplete applications will be disqualified. A resume may be included with your application; however, it WILL NOT substitute for the information requested on the application. Ensure that relevant information to be considered in the screening for minimum qualifications step is included within the online application system fields. Additionally, verification of education, and responses to the supplemental questions must be included with your submission, as detailed below. 

Attachments may be submitted through the following listed methods.
By uploading and attaching to the online application
By e-mail to jobs@yolocounty.gov
By fax to (530) 666-8049
By hand-delivery to 625 Court Street, Room 101, Woodland, CA 95695. Office hours are Monday through Friday, 8:00AM to 5:00PM. 
Please do not send originals. Copies of the required documents are acceptable. Any submitted documents will not be returned. Yolo County Human Resources is not responsible for the untimely delivery of materials sent via U.S. / specialized mail or County interoffice mail. 


Verification of Education: Acceptable forms of educational documentation are official / unofficial transcripts or copy of diploma that list the student's name, institution name, field of study, and date the degree was awarded. For recent graduates who have not received proof of their degree, a letter from the registrar's office stating that all requirements for graduation have been met and listing the field of study will be sufficient proof of graduation. Applicants who possess a degree or completed coursework that is not from an accredited college or university, must submit one of the following:
A written statement from a U.S. accredited university or college that states that the applicant is qualified for entrance to a program of graduate studies for which a degree in a related field is required. 
An evaluation of the applicant's degree and coursework equivalency by a private organization that provides foreign credential evaluation services. The evaluation must include a comparison of comparable U.S. courses for content, credit, and grade.
All foreign transcripts or diplomas must be in English. If the institution does not provide these documents in English, the applicant will need to provide a translation which has been done by a professional agency. The County of Yolo will accept education as equivalent to U.S. accreditation from institutions that are listed as members of the International Association of Universities (IAU). You may check for your school by visiting the IAU web site (https://www.iau-aiu.net/content/institutions). Please Note: Foreign language documents must include a precise word-for-word English translation of all foreign language documents. It is the responsibility of each applicant to prove to the satisfaction of the County that the applicant meets the specific requirements listed on the job announcement for each specific examination. The following is a list of private organizations that provide foreign credential evaluation services. Fees range from $50 to $400 per document; processing times vary from 5-20 business days. For further information, please contact the organization(s). The County of Yolo does not endorse these business entities; this list has been developed for informational purposes only.
Educational Records Evaluation Service
601 University Ave., Suite 127, Sacramento, CA 95825 • (916) 921-0790 • www.eres.com
Foreign Education Document Service
P.O. Box 151739, San Diego, CA 92175 • (619) 265-5810 • www.documentservice.org
Center for Applied Research, Evaluation & Education, Inc.
P.O. Box 18358, Anaheim, CA 92817 • (714) 237-9272 • www.iescaree.com
Global Services Associates, Inc.
409 North Pacific Coast Highway, # 393, Redondo Beach, CA 90277 • (310) 828-5709 • www.globaleval.org
International Education Research Foundation Credentials Evaluation Service
P.O. Box 3665, Culver City, CA 90231 • (310) 258-9451 • www.ierf.org
Supplemental Questions: Supplemental questions are designed to elicit specific information regarding a candidate’s experience, education, and training. Responses should be consistent with the information on your application and are subject to verification. If a job included responsibilities applicable to several questions, separate the different functions of the job to answer all the questions completely. Resumes or referral to the application or other questionnaire responses will not be accepted in lieu of completing each question. If you have no experience, write "no experience" for the appropriate question. 

Selection Process
The following is a tentative schedule of steps that will occur as part of the selection process. The selection process steps, and all listed dates, may change with or without notice.
Screen for Minimum Qualifications
Screen for Best Qualified, if applicable
Department Selection Interviews - Panel 1
Department Selection Interviews - Panel 2, if applicable
Reference Checks
Conditional Job Offer, Pending Pre-Employment Exams 
Drug & Alcohol Screen
Department of Justice LiveScan
Confirmed Job Offer
Screening for Best Qualified: If applicable, the applicant’s education, training, experience, and responses to the supplemental questions will be evaluated to determine those applicants that are best qualified.

Contact Information
For questions about the position or about employment with the County, please contact Human Resources by e-mail at jobs@yolocounty.govor by phone at (530) 666-8055.

Equal Employment Opportunity
It is the policy of the County of Yolo to provide equal employment opportunity for all qualified persons, regardless of sex, sexual orientation, race, color, ancestry, religious creed, national origin, physical disability (Including HIV and AIDS), mental disability, medical condition (cancer or genetic characteristics/information), age (40 or over), marital status, pregnancy, childbirth and related medical conditions, or any other classification protected by federal, state or local laws or ordinance. The County will comply with all of its obligations under State and Federal laws regarding the provision of reasonable accommodations to applicants. 

Reasonable testing arrangements may be made to accommodate applicants with disabilities or who are unable to attend a scheduled test due to religious reasons in accordance with the Fair Employment and Housing Act and the Americans with Disabilities Act. Please call the County of Yolo Human Resources Office at (530) 666-8055 at least five (5) business days prior to the scheduled test date to request accommodation. Documentation from a medical doctor, rehabilitation counselor, or other qualified professional will be required. 




Yolo County, a place where YOU belong!


The average person spends one third of their life at work. Why not spend that time in an environment where you are seen for who you are, celebrated for the diversity you bring, and valued for your potential to contribute to an innovative and dynamic workforce? Yolo County is committed to creating and sustaining an inclusive and equitable workplace which supports and values our diverse community.


Come join us! This is where YOU belong.

RETIREMENTWere you hired into a CalPERS or other public agency reciprocal system for the first time on or before January 1, 2013?  If so, you most likely have "Classic" member status.  Classic members of CalPERS (or CalPERS reciprocal) agencies who come to work for Yolo County will remain Classic members! "Classic" member CalPERS retirement formulas are:Misc: 2.5% at 55Safety: 3.0% at 55Deputy Sheriff Safety: 3.0% at 50"New" member CalPERS retirement formulas (for employees hired into a CalPERS agency for the first time after January 1, 2013) are:Misc: 2% @ 62Safety: 2.7% @ 57BENEFITS The County of Yolo offers a generous benefits package including: - Health, Dental, and Vision Insurance - CalPERS Retirement - Deferred Compensation Plans - Flexible Spending Accounts - Employee Assistance Program - Vacation, Sick, and Administrative Leave  - Holidays & Floating Holidays  - Disability Plans - Social Security & MedicareBenefits for County positions are specific to the bargaining unit of the position. The Salary Resolution (accessible here) identifies the bargaining unit for each County classification.Once you've identified the bargaining unit, you can look up the benefits for a particular position by going to our Benefits Summaries by Bargaining Unit page on our website, by clicking here.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        The job bulletin for this class outlines the steps in the application and selection process, and contains all necessary information that an applicant will need to complete and submit a complete application packet. Complete application packets MUST be submitted prior to the closing date. Candidates will not be given additional time to submit additional information.
 
I have read and certify that I understand the application instructions for this position. I understand that all required documents must be submitted by the closing date, and I have reviewed the job bulletin to ensure I understand what is required to submit a complete application packet.
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        I have read the above instructions and understand that my responses to the supplemental questions are required, and my responses will be used to determine the best qualified candidates for this job. I certify that my responses are accurate to the best of my knowledge. I understand that should my name be placed on an eligible list and it is later found that my responses are inaccurate, my name will be immediately removed from the eligible list and I will be deemed ineligible for consideration for employment in this class with Yolo County.
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Describe your background and experience in elections, including specific leadership responsibilities you have held. Include in your response the duration (from mm/yyyy to mm/yyyy) and relevant employment, internships, and/or coursework, where such experience was acquired.
        
        
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Describe your experience engaging with diverse communities and contributing to inclusive work environments.
        
        
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Describe and provide examples of how you have demonstrated collaborative leadership in your professional roles. Include in your response the timeframe (from mm/yyyy to mm/yyyy) and where such experience was acquired.
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        