=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Administrative Specialist III (Ballot Collection Lead)
Salary: $32.44 - $41.25 HOUR
Location: WA 98057-2906, WA, WA, 98104
Employer: King County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2026-08-17
Job Type: Career Service (Exec)
Job Number: 2026RL27794
Department: KCE - King County Elections
Division: Election Services
Opening Date: 08/17/2026
Closing Date: 9/14/2026 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Non-Exempt
Bargaining Unit: F1A : L117-Admin
Full- or Part-Time: Full Time
Hours/Week: 40 hours/week

BENEFITS:
  • Excellent medical, dental, and vision coverage options: King County provides eligible employees with options, so they can decide what’s best for themselves and their eligible dependents
  • Life and disability insurance: employees are provided basic coverage and given the opportunity to purchase additional insurance for both the employee and eligible dependents
  • Retirement: eligible King County employees may participate in a pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems and a 457(b) deferred-compensation plan
  • Transportation program and ORCA transit pass
  • 12 paid holidays each year plus two personal holidays
  • Generous vacation and paid sick leave
  • Paid parental, family and medical, and volunteer leaves
  • Flexible Spending Account
  • Wellness programs
  • Onsite activity centers
  • Employee Giving Program
  • Employee assistance programs
  • Flexible schedules and telecommuting options, depending on position
  • Training and career development programs

For additional information about employee benefits, visit our
Benefits, Payroll, and Retirement Page
.
This is a general description of the benefits offered to eligible King County employees, and every effort has been made to ensure its accuracy.  If any information on this document conflicts with the provisions of a collective bargaining agreement (CBA), the CBA prevails.
NOTE:
Benefits for Term Limited Temporary (TLT) or Short Term Temporary (STT) positions, including leave eligibility and/or participation in the pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems, will vary based upon the terms and details of the position. Short Term Temporary positions are not eligible for an ORCA transit pass.
For inquiries about the specifics of this position, please contact the recruiter identified on this job posting.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

This is an amazing opportunity to be engaged in the election process!

 

The Department of Elections is searching for an energetic and resourceful professional who likes to "get stuff done". The Ballot Collection Lead position in the Elections Services Division combines an exciting, fast-paced environment with the opportunity to cultivate talents and apply a variety of skills. The ideal candidate will thrive in an innovative, fast-paced environment and will not hesitate to roll up both sleeves, work hard, have fun, and get the job done.
  
Under the direction of the Ballot Collection & Logistics Supervisor, this position will support and lead the critical behind-the-scenes operations that keep King County’s nearly 100 ballot drop box locations running smoothly. From coordinating ballot collection teams and training temporary staff, to supporting fleet and warehouse logistics, you will help ensure every ballot is collected securely, efficiently, and on schedule.




This role is ideal for a detail-oriented individual with strong communication skills, experience overseeing diverse workgroups, and a demonstrated ability to manage data, adapt to rapidly changing priorities, and problem-solve in a fast-paced environment. Candidates with experience in logistics, warehouse/receiving, training, data tracking, and customer service will thrive in this position. This position will lead processes, projects, and people which includes leading, coaching, mentoring, and training temporary and regular staff. Leads may also provide assistance and/or participate in long-term cross-training in multiple work areas to meet organizational agile efforts.


Who We Are:  King County Elections (KCE) manages voter registrations and elections for more than 1.4 million voters in King County, one of the largest vote-by-mail counties in the United States. KCE's mission is to conduct accessible, secure, and accurate elections. As a leader in providing inclusive elections, KCE is focused on core values of accuracy, equity, integrity, service, teamwork, and transparency. The team at KCE is committed to ensuring all King County voters can get registered, cast their ballot, and make their voices heard. Learn more at www.kingcounty.gov/elections.aspx.
   
Who May Apply:  This position is open to all qualified applicants. This recruitment may also be used to create a list of candidates to fill current and future career service and term-limited temporary (TLT) positions over the next 6 months. Applications will be screened for qualifications and completion of all the required materials and forms. The most competitive applicants will be contacted for further steps in the selection process. 
  
Work Location:  The work associated with this position will be performed through a combination of mandatory on-site work with some telecommuting work as needed. The work site for this position is the Elections Building located at 919 SW Grady Way in Renton.

 

Work Schedule: This position is subject to the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act and is overtime eligible. The workweek is typically 40 hours per week, Monday through Friday. This position is expected to be able to work during sudden changes to schedule that may include early mornings, late nights, weekends, and holidays during designated election times. Mandatory overtime (including weekends or evenings) will be required during elections and other peak work periods.
  
Required Materials: A completed online King County employment Application. A Resume and Cover Letter are required and should be attached before submitting your application.  The cover letter should describe how your skills and experience meet or exceed the requirements of the job.

King County Elections believes in working in a very agile working environment. Creating a team that delivers now and in the future is very important. There may be various job duties that you could be assigned to including:

Assist in developing expected returns forecasts and recommending staffing and ballot collection methods, using established expectations and measurement guidelines.
Distribute work load among short term temporary employees, provide direction and training and monitor the quality and completion of work. 
Assist in establishing work methods and recommending workload and procedural changes to improve processes. 
Organize and coordinate work activities, assist in employee selection, and provide input on the performance of staff. 
Provide direction to driving teams and drop box closers, including assigning teams, training and dispatching workgroups, ensuring ballot security during transit, and troubleshooting emergent issues. 
Assist with drop box collection and closing needs, including box integrity and maintenance, election night security and supplies. 
Interpret established policies, procedures, and regulations to employees and customers. 
Research and resolve questions, problems, or inquiries from staff, citizens, and stakeholders. 
May also provide assistance with ballot delivery, ballot and voters’ pamphlet proofing, performing data entry, retrieving and editing records, and providing excellent customer service.

Demonstrated skill and experience providing oversight to a diverse group of workers in a team-focused environment. 
Demonstrated ability to provide excellent verbal and written communication including instruction, training, and feedback. 
Demonstrated skill and work experience that includes maintaining and tracking data, data analysis, and designing and maintaining data sources. 
Demonstrated skill and experience presenting information to large diverse audiences. 
Demonstrated ability maintaining a professional demeanor and providing timely and reliable customer service preferably in a public environment. 
Demonstrated skill in handling stressful situations effectively while maintaining composure. 
Demonstrated ability and experience maintaining confidentiality, while sharing the right information with the appropriate people. 
Demonstrated ability managing quickly changing priorities and quickly changing information. Ability to assess the need for a change of course and then implement the adjustment clearly and decisively.
Demonstrated skill and experience in problem solving, research, analysis and assessing information requiring initiative and a self-starter. 
Demonstrated ability to multi-task and work in a busy environment with a sense of urgency, high energy, and enthusiasm. 
Demonstrated ability to work cooperatively with a variety of individuals in a team environment. 
Demonstrated comfort with the use of Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Word, email and electronic record filing systems to create correspondence and spreadsheets, send and receive information, access and analyze data, and develop reports and outreach materials.

Desirable Qualifications:
Knowledge and proficient use of routing or logistical software (ESRI suite of applications or other GIS software).
Experience with Microsoft Office SharePoint and Teams. 
Experience with dispatch processes. 
Working knowledge of election operations.

Travel to work locations throughout King County with limited or no public transportation services is required. A valid Washington State Driver's License is required to operate King County vehicles.  A final offer of employment will be contingent upon review of an official Washington State Driving Abstract demonstrating a good driving record.
 
Physical Requirements:  The duties in this position are performed in an office setting and may be required to lift and/or move at least 25 pounds independently and up to 50 pounds in a team setting. Must have the ability to bend, kneel, stand, reach, climb, stoop, and squat.
 
Union: This position is represented by Teamsters, Local 117, Professional & Technical and Administrative Employees.

 

Hybrid Work Environment
The work associated with this position will be performed through a combination of mandatory onsite work complemented with some telecommuting work and meetings as needed. Employees must reside in Washington state and within a reasonable distance to their King County worksite to respond to workplace reporting requirements.
   
Employees will be provided with a County issued laptop and must maintain a workspace with an internet connection, where they can reliably perform work and remain available and responsive during scheduled work hours.  

King County has a robust collection of tools and resources to support working remotely. The individual selected for this opportunity will be joining an innovative and progressive team that is redefining how we work in the department's hybrid environment.
  
King County's Vision, Mission, and ACTIVATE Values unite us.

King County serves residents with a relentless sense of urgency, delivering on commitments with transparency and accountability. We are action-oriented, creative problem solvers who collaborate across roles, engage directly with communities, and challenge the status quo to achieve meaningful impact. As a unified team, we uphold high ethical and stewardship standards, embrace change, stay curious, and continuously improve. Across all interactions, we listen first, act quickly, and stay aligned as a team to earn and sustain public trust. Learn more about our Vision, Mission, and ACTIVATE Values here and visit our Why work at King County page here.

 

King County is an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Employer

No person is unlawfully excluded from employment opportunities based on sex, race, color, national origin, ethnicity, religious affiliation, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, age except by minimum age and retirement provisions, pregnancy, status as a family caregiver, parental status, marital status, military status or status as a veteran who was honorably discharged or who was discharged solely as a result of the person's sexual orientation or gender identity or expression, citizenship or immigration status, genetic information, or other protected class. However, to the extent that distinction or differential treatment on the basis of citizenship or immigration status is authorized by either federal or state law, regulation, or government contract, it is not an unfair practice.

 

Application Process

Are you ready to make a difference? Come join the team dedicated to serving one of the nation's best places to live, work and play.




If you are interested in pursuing this position and supporting King County’s vision for unified, equitable, and high-performing government, please follow the application instructions carefully. Provide us with your work history as applicable, ensuring that you provide details that highlight your ability to fulfill the requirements for this position.




If you need this announcement in an alternate language or format, or you would like to request accommodation or assistance in the application or assessment process, please contact Reeshema Lewis at Reeshema.Lewis@kingcounty.gov