=== JOB DETAILS ===

Salary: $3,550.00 - $4,438.00 Monthly
Location: Castle Rock, CO
Job Type: Full-Time Regular
Job Number: 1020S 3/26/19
Department: Clerk & Recorder
Opening Date: 03/26/2019
Closing Date: 5/1/2019 9:15 AM Mountain
FLSA: Non-Exempt

BENEFITS:
  • 10 ½ paid holidays each year + a floating holiday
  • 8 hours of paid vacation per month
  • 8 hours of paid sick time per month
  • Medical insurance employees can choose from three plan options:   Aetna WHN CO Front Range Select,  Aetna Open Access Select (HMO) or Aetna WHN CO Front Range Choice POSII HDHP/HSA.
  • Life insurance 1.5 times employee salary at no cost to employee
  • Short-term and long-term disability at no cost to employee
  • Mandatory retirement – defined contribution of either 6% or 8% - matched at 8%
  • Annual performance reviews with potential for an increase

Additionally, we offer dental, vision, accident/critical illness insurance, tuition reimbursement, and employee training.  Part-time employees receive a pro-rated benefits package.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===


The Elections Lead Specialist assists in the supervision and coordination of elections operations, staff, and election judges including voter services, mail ballot processing and the conduct of elections. The objective of this position is to perform a variety of functions and diverse support roles on a routine basis. Mail Ballot Processing responsibilities are prioritized over other duties during election cycles, which may increase or decrease dramatically depending on the Elections cycle. In the absence of the Operations Manager, assumes responsibility for front-line functions associated with elections operations. This is a highly visible position requiring exceptional leadership, organizational, and communication skills.  

Please Note: This position is posted as open until filled, review of applications will begin immediately and continue until a suitable candidate is selected.
 


ELECTION OPERATIONS

Assists the Elections leadership team in the oversight of staff and monitors their statutory and non-statutory responsibilities to ensure compliance with office policies and procedures, County policy, state statute, and federal regulation.
Mail ballot processing
Customer service
Data entry
Voter registration
Election Judge program
Mapping and addressing
Acquires and maintains a highly technical working knowledge of relevant laws, regulations, policies, standards, and elections operations procedures.
Administers state election laws and rules, and federal election laws to provide successful voting experience to staff and public.
Creates, revises, and maintains standard operating procedures to perform role specific functions.
Reviews and revises training materials and documentation as needed.
Implements quality assurance measures to ensure processes and procedures are tested to evaluate for potential improvement and accuracy. Participates in continuous improvement initiatives.
Lives out the Vision, Mission, and Core Values of the Clerk and Recorder's Office, maintaining a supportive environment conducive to teamwork.
Represents office across County and State on relevant working groups.
Provide customer service both in person, online, and via telephone.
Assists staff with accounting functions of the office.
Completes opening/closing procedures for office.
 
MAIL BALLOT PROCESSING
Oversees ballot processing including; ballot sorter, signature verification, evaluation, ballot removal, and Ballot Information Tracking System.
Coordinates schedules and directs work of election judges.
Performs research and reporting.
Responsible for preparing mail ballot sorting equipment, including, programing, testing, signature upload/download, troubleshooting, and working with vendor as needed.
Acts as subject matter expert and resource for staff and election judges.
Performs other duties as assigned.
 
SUPERVISION RECEIVED: 
The Lead must be able to work independently with minimal supervision and know and understand when situations should be advanced to a higher level of authority.  
                                         
SUPERVISORY RESPONSIBILITIES: 
Provides relevant feedback related to training and performance.
 
INDEPENDENT JUDGMENT: 
Identify opportunities for process and/or productivity enhancements. Design and implement change.
Effectively utilize resources (reports, policies, experience, and job knowledge) to draw logical conclusions to problems.
Decisions are guided by governing statutes and rules, department/division policies under direction of Deputy of Elections.


EDUCATION and/or EXPERIENCE: 

HS Diploma or GED and three years of Elections-related experience or a combination of elections and supervisory experience.
Associates Degree preferred at a minimum.
Ability to meet continuing education requirements set by the State, County, and the Clerk & Recorder's Office.
Ability to meet technical training requirements due to legislation.
KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, AND ABILITIES:
Knowledge:
Knowledge of principles and processes for providing customer and personal services.
Knowledge of administrative and clerical procedures and systems such as word processing, managing files and records, and other office procedures and terminology.
Knowledge of business and management principles involved in strategic planning, resource allocation, leadership technique, and coordination of people and resources.
Skills:
Proficient skill level in Microsoft 2010 Outlook, Word, Excel, and PowerPoint; Poll Chief experience preferred.
Proficient math skills.
Competencies in creating, evaluating, and improving business processes.
Excellent analytical, reasoning, and troubleshooting abilities.
Effectively lead teams in change environment.
Must be able to communicate effectively in both oral and written form, as well as fluently speak, read, and write English. 
Recognizes and used correct English grammar, punctuation, and spelling; produces written information that is appropriate for the intended audience.
Abilities:
Ability to understand, interpret, explain, and comply with election law and Secretary of State rules as they relate to security and election equipment (including but not limited to Title 1 C.R.S, SoS Rules Concerning Elections).
Ability to work effectively both independently and in a team environment and utilize initiative to direct own and others' activities.
Ability to manage multiple activities concurrently, allocating time to each according to prioritization.
Maintains confidentiality of information consistent with applicable federal, state and county rules and regulations.
Establishes and maintains effective working relationships with employees, departments, agencies, vendors, and the public.
Ability to apply common sense understanding to interpret and carry out instructions.
Identify problems; determine accuracy and relevance of information; use sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.
 
 
CONTACTS:
Frequent direct contact with deputies, managers, employees, and departments
State, County, Municipal & Special District Elected Officials
Political Party Chairpersons and representatives
Election Deputies/Manager in other counties
Candidates for Elected Offices
Secretary of State's office, Department of Local Affairs office, and Special Districts representatives
Vendors
General public
 
 
CERTIFICATES, LICENSES, REGISTRATIONS:
Must have and maintain a valid Colorado Driver's License and complying Colorado Insurance.
US citizenship required.
Must pass state and/or national criminal background check annually.
Sworn as an agent of the Douglas County Clerk and Recorder's Office to discharge duties conveyed by 
CRS 1-1-110; registered to vote in Colorado.
Must obtain Secretary of State Election Certification within 1 year from date of hire and maintain certification.
The ability to successfully complete pre-employment screening including but not limited to: reference checks, criminal background (to include fingerprinting through a national data base), motor vehicle record and drug screen is required.

 


WORK ENVIRONMENT:

Work is generally performed in an office or warehouse environment with occasional travel to other locations during the course and scope of duties.
Occasionally may be asked to drive a variety of types and sizes of vehicles.
Subject of blackout periods for planned time off lasting up to three months at a time. Typically, this timeframe may begin 60 days prior to Election Day and may end 30 days past Election Day. Deputy of Elections and/or Douglas County Clerk and Recorder, based on workloads and operational need, may identify additional blackout periods with little notice.
Extended work hours may be required to include evenings, weekends and holidays.
Required to stand, walk, sit, talk, hear, and drive. 
Specific vision abilities required by this job include vision and the ability to adjust focus.  
Occasional heavy lifting 35 pounds or more.
Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions.
 
 
In the event of an emergency/disaster in or near the County, all County employees are expected to make every effort to be available to assist the County Manager, Elected/Appointed Officials and Department Directors to ensure the continued operation of any and all necessary County functions. This may mean being available to perform additional duties and hours beyond what is normally required.  In the event that an exempt employee does work more than 40 hours a week in support of County operations during an emergency, such employee may receive overtime or other appropriate wage compensation in accordance with existing County policies or at the discretion of the County.

 