=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Director of Elections Information Technology (Division Director - Technology)
Salary: $172,757.31 - $218,980.11 YEAR
Location: WA 98057-2906, WA, WA, 98104
Employer: King County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2025-11-13
Job Type: zzDNU_Appointed
Job Number: 2025RL25868
Department: KCE - King County Elections
Division: Technical Services
Opening Date: 11/13/2025
Closing Date: 1/22/2026 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Exempt
Bargaining Unit: Z3 : KC Personnel Guidelines
Full- or Part-Time: Full Time
Hours/Week: 40 hours/week

BENEFITS:
  • Excellent medical, dental, and vision coverage options: King County provides eligible employees with options, so they can decide what’s best for themselves and their eligible dependents
  • Life and disability insurance: employees are provided basic coverage and given the opportunity to purchase additional insurance for both the employee and eligible dependents
  • Retirement: eligible King County employees may participate in a pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems and a 457(b) deferred-compensation plan
  • Transportation program and ORCA transit pass
  • 12 paid holidays each year plus two personal holidays
  • Generous vacation and paid sick leave
  • Paid parental, family and medical, and volunteer leaves
  • Flexible Spending Account
  • Wellness programs
  • Onsite activity centers
  • Employee Giving Program
  • Employee assistance programs
  • Flexible schedules and telecommuting options, depending on position
  • Training and career development programs

For additional information about employee benefits, visit our
Benefits, Payroll, and Retirement Page
.
This is a general description of the benefits offered to eligible King County employees, and every effort has been made to ensure its accuracy.  If any information on this document conflicts with the provisions of a collective bargaining agreement (CBA), the CBA prevails.
NOTE:
Benefits for Term Limited Temporary (TLT) or Short Term Temporary (STT) positions, including leave eligibility and/or participation in the pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems, will vary based upon the terms and details of the position. Short Term Temporary positions are not eligible for an ORCA transit pass.
For inquiries about the specifics of this position, please contact the recruiter identified on this job posting.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

**Join King County Elections as the DIRECTOR OF ELECTIONS INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY**

King County Elections (KCE) seeks a dynamic and visionary leader to serve as our Director of Elections Information Technology (Division Director - Technology). The Director of Elections Information Technology will report to the elected Director of Elections, serve as a member of the Department’s Leadership Team, and lead and support a highly skilled team to achieve excellence in election technology, security, and administration.

This role will play a key part in developing departmental goals, strategies, and initiatives, driving the adoption of new technologies within KCE, and fostering a culture of innovation and collaboration. This is a unique opportunity to inspire and empower a team, drive the adoption of new technologies within KCE, identify opportunities to bring innovation to the forefront of our operations, and significantly impact the future of election administration in one of the most populous and diverse counties in the United States. 

This is a hybrid position that performs work remotely and on-site. As a leadership team member, this position is expected to work on-site frequently during active elections.

ABOUT KING COUNTY ELECTIONS 

King County Elections is led by Julie Wise, the elected Director of Elections.

We conduct accurate, secure, and accessible elections for King County’s 1.4 million registered voters. Nationally recognized as a leader in innovation, accessibility, and security, King County Elections believes that our democracy works best when all voices are heard. 

Guided by core values of accuracy, equity, integrity, service, teamwork, and transparency, Elections pushes the envelope in all aspects from ballot design to secure and efficient ballot processing and more. We are committed to making sure every King County voter can get registered, cast their ballot, and make their voice heard. Learn more at www.kingcounty.gov/elections.aspx.

COMMITMENT TO EQUITY & SOCIAL JUSTICE

As the only county in the United States named after one of the most influential civil rights leaders in our nation’s history, Martin Luther King, Jr. County is a vibrant international community with residents representing countries worldwide.

King County Elections is deeply dedicated to fostering Equity, Racial, and Social Justice in every aspect of our work. We pledge to cultivate, embrace, and celebrate the distinct experiences, viewpoints, and perspectives of our people, partners, and the communities we serve. Through this work, we dismantle systemic barriers, address inequities, and actively confront prejudices and biases. We acknowledge that this journey is ongoing, and we remain steadfast in our efforts to create a positive impact for our employees and communities.

You will apply equity, race, and social justice principles that exemplify shared values, behaviors, and practices to all aspects of the work. 

KEY DELIVERABLES AND EXPECTATIONS:

Oversee the design, implementation, and maintenance of a robust KCE IT infrastructure that supports all aspects of the elections lifecycle, including voter registration systems, ballot processing, and results reporting.
Direct and manage the Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and Information Technology teams, providing proactive support and resources to empower team members while fostering a culture of collaboration, innovation, and accountability to meet the unique technological demands of election processes.
Ensure the security and integrity of all election-related data by implementing rigorous cybersecurity measures, adhering to industry best practices, and maintaining compliance with state and federal regulations. Provide strategic oversight to ensure seamless operation of critical election systems and offer rapid resolution to technical issues during election cycles.
Develop and execute the long-term IT strategy to align with KCE's mission and objectives, ensuring that technology adoption enhances operational efficiency and voter accessibility. Drive the adoption of new technologies within KCE, identifying opportunities to bring innovation to the forefront of our operations and significantly impact the future of election administration.
Develop and manage comprehensive IT risk management and contingency plans to address potential threats and ensure uninterrupted operations during critical election periods.
Establish and maintain productive relationships with King County Information Technology (KCIT), King County’s central information technology department, to integrate resources, share expertise, and align systems for optimal performance and security. Ensure that election systems are fully integrated with King County's broader IT infrastructure, ensuring the security and efficiency of the IT infrastructure that underpins every election.

THE MOST COMPETITIVE CANDIDATES WILL DEMONSTRATE THE FOLLOWING:

Progressively responsible management and leadership experience in Information Technology operations, programming, systems analysis, strategic planning, project management, and applying information technology to meet the needs of a government or business organization.
Demonstrated success leading strategy and coordinating collaborative problem-solving across silos and levels of an organization, securing resources and aligning cross-departmental objectives.
Ability to lead and inspire diverse teams and value differences, fostering a culture of collaboration, innovation, and accountability. Develop, coach, and mentor a culturally and generationally diverse staff collaboratively that focuses on employee engagement, good communication, and team building. Experience working in an organized labor environment is a plus.
Commitment to and experience in upholding and implementing principles of equity, race, and social justice, with a proven ability to integrate these principles into all facets of KCE’s operations and services.
Ability to build productive partnerships across King County and external agencies, such as the Secretary of State’s office, and capable of integrating election systems with broader IT infrastructure.
Ability to analyze and anticipate problems, assess decisions' financial and operational impacts, evaluate and manage team performance, and provide proactive solutions that meet critical business needs and address complex technical challenges, especially under time-sensitive election conditions.
Ability to gain the confidence and trust of others through honesty, integrity, and authenticity, and hold self and others accountable to meet commitments.

Who May Apply: This position is open to all qualified applicants. This position is open until filled. Applications submitted by December 1st will be part of the first round of review and interviews.

Application Process: A complete King County application, Resume, and Cover Letter are required. The cover letter should summarize how you meet the experience, qualifications, knowledge, and skills for the position. Applications will be screened for clarity, completeness, and competitiveness. The most competitive candidates may be invited to participate in one or more interviews. 

Work Schedule: The work week usually is Monday through Friday, 8.00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., but may sometimes require work outside regular business hours. This position is Exempt from the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act and is not eligible for overtime pay. 

Work Location and Requirements: The Elections team works in a hybrid model, with days in the office as well as telecommuting. The ratio of remote to onsite work will be dependent on business needs and is subject to change. The primary onsite location for this position is the Elections Building, 919 SW Grady Way, Renton.

Employees must reside in Washington state and within a reasonable distance to their King County worksite to respond to workplace reporting requirements.

King County has a robust collection of tools and resources to support working remotely. The individual selected for this opportunity will join an innovative and progressive team that is redefining how we work as we transition to the department's hybrid environment. Employees will be provided with a County-issued laptop and must maintain a home workspace with an internet connection where they can reliably perform work and remain available and responsive during scheduled work hours.

Emergency Designation Status: Mission-Critical - Those employees who provide, maintain, and re-establish essential county functions as described in agency Continuity of Operations plans. Unless otherwise directed by the County Executive, department director, or agency head, all employees, regardless of designation, are expected to report to work or request leave during an emergency or inclement weather. For more detailed information, please visit HR Policy County Operations During Emergency Situations and the King County Guidelines for Workforce Management in an Emergency.

Union Membership: This position is non-represented. 

Forbes recently named King County as one of Washington State's best employers.
   
Together, with leadership and our employees, we're changing the way government delivers service and winning national recognition as a model of excellence. Are you ready to make a difference? Come join the team dedicated to serving one of the nation's best places to live, work and play.
     
Guided by our "True North", we are making King County a welcoming community where every person can thrive. We value diversity, inclusion and belonging in our workplace and workforce. To reach this goal we are committed to workforce equity. Equitable recruiting, support, and retention is how we will obtain the highest quality workforce in our region; a workforce that shares and will help advance our guiding principles--we are one team; we solve problems; we focus on the customer; we drive for results; we are racially just; we respect all people; we lead the way; and we are responsible stewards. We encourage people of all backgrounds and identities to apply, including Native American and people of color, immigrants, refugees, women, LGBTQ+, people living with disabilities, and veterans.
     
King County is an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Employer
No person is unlawfully excluded from employment opportunities based on race, color, religion, national origin, sex (including gender identity, sexual orientation and pregnancy), age, genetic information, disability, veteran status, or other protected class. Our EEO policy applies to all employment actions, including but not limited to recruitment, hiring, selection for training, promotion, transfer, demotion, layoff, termination, rates of pay or other forms of compensation.
     
To Apply 
If you are interested in pursuing this position, please follow the application instructions carefully. If you need this announcement in an alternate language or format, would like to request accommodation or assistance in the application or assessment process or if you have questions please contact your recruiter listed on this job announcement.

For more information regarding this recruitment, please contact: 
    Reeshema Lewis
    Sr. HR Business Partner
    Email: Reeshema.Lewis@kingcounty.gov 