=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Administrative Specialist IV
Salary: $28.07 - $35.71 HOUR
Location: WA 98057-2906, WA, WA, 98104
Employer: King County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2022-02-02
Job Type: zzDNU_Special Duty Assign or Term Ltdt Temp (TLT)
Job Number: 2022RL15330
Department: KCE - King County Elections
Division: Voter Services
Opening Date: 02/02/2022
Closing Date: 2/16/2022 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Non-Exempt
Bargaining Unit: F1A : L117-Admin

BENEFITS:
  • Excellent medical, dental, and vision coverage options: King County provides eligible employees with options, so they can decide what’s best for themselves and their eligible dependents
  • Life and disability insurance: employees are provided basic coverage and given the opportunity to purchase additional insurance for both the employee and eligible dependents
  • Retirement: eligible King County employees may participate in a pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems and a 457(b) deferred-compensation plan
  • Transportation program and ORCA transit pass
  • 12 paid holidays each year plus two personal holidays
  • Generous vacation and paid sick leave
  • Paid parental, family and medical, and volunteer leaves
  • Flexible Spending Account
  • Wellness programs
  • Onsite activity centers
  • Employee Giving Program
  • Employee assistance programs
  • Flexible schedules and telecommuting options, depending on position
  • Training and career development programs

For additional information about employee benefits, visit our
Benefits, Payroll, and Retirement Page
.
This is a general description of the benefits offered to eligible King County employees, and every effort has been made to ensure its accuracy.  If any information on this document conflicts with the provisions of a collective bargaining agreement (CBA), the CBA prevails.
NOTE:
Benefits for Term Limited Temporary (TLT) or Short Term Temporary (STT) positions, including leave eligibility and/or participation in the pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems, will vary based upon the terms and details of the position. Short Term Temporary positions are not eligible for an ORCA transit pass.
For inquiries about the specifics of this position, please contact the recruiter identified on this job posting.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

This is an amazing opportunity to be engaged in the election process!

   
This position will be filled as a Term-Limited Temporary position or Special Duty Assignment for current King County employees who have passed their initial probationary period. Term-Limited Temporary positions are "at-will" positions but are eligible for benefits. This position is anticipated to last through December 2022.
 
The Department of Elections is searching for an energetic and resourceful professional who likes to get stuff done. The Administrative Specialist IV in the Elections Department combines an exciting environment with the opportunity to cultivate talents and apply a variety of skills. The ideal candidate will thrive in an innovative, fast-paced environment and will not hesitate to roll up both sleeves, work hard, have fun, and get the job done.
 
This position will supervise the temporary administrative staff who are participants of the King County Jobs and Housing program.  This position will work on the Signature Update Project in Voter Services and will also provide technical and specialized administrative support services.  Signatures are a vital part of the election process, being used in many different areas including verifying identity and counting ballots. Signatures may also change over time due to a variety of reasons. Signature update forms will be mailed to over 1.4 million registered voters to get an updated signature on their voter registration file. This will help us ensure that we have the most up to date information and reduce signature issues when participating in the electoral process.

King County Elections (KCE) manages voter registration and elections for more than 1.4 million voters in King County and is the largest vote-by-mail county in the United States. KCE's mission is to conduct accessible, secure, and accurate elections. As a leader in providing inclusive elections, KCE is focused on three key priorities – (1) actively identifying and working to remove barriers to voting at both the individual and community level, (2) strengthening relationships with community and governmental partners, and (3) creating a culture of professional growth and development, openness and inclusion. Learn more at www.kingcounty.gov/elections.aspx
 
Who May Apply:  This position is open to the general public and all King County employees.
 
Materials Required to Apply: A completed online King County employment Application at www.kingcounty.gov/jobs and a Resume and Cover Letter are required and should be attached before submitting your application.  The cover letter should describe how your skills and experience meet or exceed the requirements of the job.
 
Work Location: This position will be required to work onsite daily at the Elections Building located at 919 SW Grady Way, Renton, WA 98057.
 
Work Schedule:  This position is subject to the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act and is overtime eligible. The workweek is typically 35 hours per week, 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. We require the flexibility to work additional hours during peak periods of the Election cycle that may occur outside of typical business hours.  

Supervise and lead a data entry project consisting of mailing forms to voters, processing returned forms and updating voter registration records.  Develop schedules, set objectives and goals, and coordinate with internal customers for assigned areas of responsibility. 
Supervise the work of 5 to 10 administrative staff including motivating, coaching, conducting performance evaluations and recommending disciplinary actions.  Additional administrative staff may potentially be hired at a later date.
Coordinate with outside vendors for mail outs, approval of proofs.
Approve billings which includes signing off on payments to vendor for mailings, putting in orders, proofing documents, and monitoring supplies.
Coordinate the scheduling of staff, approve leave requests and approve timesheets.
Develop spreadsheets, word documents, and reports; review documents for proper formatting and accuracy. 
Research and resolve questions, problems, or inquiries from staff, citizens and/or stakeholders.

Strong written and verbal communication skills, including the ability to summarize complex issues succinctly. 
Ability to work in a fast-paced environment and take initiative on projects. 
Ability to manage quickly changing priorities and information. 
Strong planning skills and problem-solving ability. 
Demonstrated skill in managing priorities, meeting deadlines, and meeting or exceeding goals. 
Knowledge of workload planning and scheduling. 
Demonstrated skill leading processes, projects, and people. 
Excellent customer service skills with the ability to meet the requirements and expectations of internal and external customers. Ability to interact with different types of people and build and maintain effective relationships. 
Skill in handling stressful situations effectively while maintaining composure. 
Skill in working independently on assigned tasks with minimal or no guidance. 
Proficient use of Outlook, Word, Excel, SharePoint.
Desired Qualifications:

Experience working in an elections operation.
Knowledge and skill in supervising, motivating and coaching professional level support staff. 



Travel to work locations throughout King County with limited or no public transportation services is required. A valid Washington State Driver's License is required to operate King County vehicles.
 
Physical Requirements:  The duties in this position are performed in an office setting and may be required to lift at least 25 pounds.  
 
Union Representation: This position is represented by Teamsters, Local 117, Professional & Technical and Administrative Employees.
 
Temporary Telecommuting Requirement 
The work associated with this position will be performed onsite at the Elections building.  If circumstances change, the work might be complemented with telecommuting and meetings as needed. Employees must reside in Washington state and within a reasonable distance to their King County worksite to respond to workplace reporting requirements.
 
Employees will be provided with a County issued laptop and must maintain a workspace with an internet connection (access may be supplemented in some situations) where they can reliably perform work and remain available and responsive during scheduled work hours. Please note that when an employee conducts work that is likely to bring them in contact with another individual, safety precautions are required, including the wearing of masks in some situations. King County is doing its part to reduce the spread of COVID-19 and remains committed to reducing our carbon footprint.
   
King County has a robust collection of tools and resources to support working remotely. The individual selected for this opportunity will be joining an innovative and progressive team that is redefining how we work as we transition to the department's hybrid environment.  

Forbes recently named King County as one of Washington State's best employers.
           
Together, with leadership and our employees, we're changing the way government delivers service and winning national recognition as a model of excellence. Are you ready to make a difference? Come join the team dedicated to serving one of the nation's best places to live, work and play.
   
Guided by our "True North", we are making King County a welcoming community where every person can thrive. We value diversity, inclusion and belonging in our workplace and workforce. To reach this goal we are committed to workforce equity. Equitable recruiting, support, and retention is how we will obtain the highest quality workforce in our region; a workforce that shares and will help advance our guiding principles--we are one team; we solve problems; we focus on the customer; we drive for results; we are racially just; we respect all people; we lead the way; and we are responsible stewards. We encourage people of all backgrounds and identities to apply, including Native American and people of color, immigrants, refugees, women, LGBTQ+, people living with disabilities, and veterans.
 
Covid-19 Vaccination Requirement
 
King County Executive Branch employees are required to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. If you are the successful candidate for the position you applied for, the County will send you a conditional offer letter.
 
 As a condition of employment, prior to a final offer of employment, you will be required to:
 


submit proof of vaccination or
have an approved request for medical or religious exemption and an approved accommodation. Philosophical, political, scientific, or sociological objections to vaccination will not be considered for an exemption or accommodation.
People are considered fully vaccinated against COVID-19 two weeks after receiving the final dose of a vaccination approved by the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
 
The Executive Branch includes employees in the Executive branch, the Assessor’s Office, Elections, the King County Sheriff’s Office, and the Executive Office.
   
King County is an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Employer
No person is unlawfully excluded from employment opportunities based on race, color, religion, national origin, sex (including gender identity, sexual orientation and pregnancy), age, genetic information, disability, veteran status, or other protected class. Our EEO policy applies to all employment actions, including but not limited to recruitment, hiring, selection for training, promotion, transfer, demotion, layoff, termination, rates of pay or other forms of compensation.
 
To Apply 
If you are interested in pursuing this position, please follow the application instructions carefully. If you need this announcement in an alternate language or format, would like to request accommodation or assistance in the application or assessment process or if you have questions please contact your recruiter listed on this job announcement.
   
 For more information regarding this recruitment, please contact: 
    Reeshema Lewis
    Sr. HR Business Partner
    Email:  Reeshema.Lewis@kingcounty.gov 
    Phone: 206-263-8413