=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Voter Registration Specialist II
Salary: $35,731.90 - $41,073.14 YEAR
Location: Recorder - Prescott, AZ, AZ, 86305
Employer: Yavapai County Government
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2016-11-29
Job Type: Full Time - Non Exempt
Job Number: 201600317
Department: Recorder's Office
Opening Date: 11/30/2016
Closing Date: 2/2/2017 8:00 AM Arizona

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Under minimal supervision, supervises temporary employees and performs all forms of customer service and office procedures. Also performs technical work of increasing difficulty in the operation of Voter Registration and specialized mailing and printing equipment.

Employment with Yavapai County Government is contingent upon successfully passing a criminal background check and verification of work history, academic credentials, licenses and certifications, as applicable.

Maintains complex voter registration database; manage all phases of printing and mailing of voter materials. Helps manage all phases of mailing and receiving ballots; purchases and maintains inventory of stock; accounts for beginning and ending inventory of ballots.   (35%)

Assists the Registrar of Voters in planning, organizing and preparing for upcoming Elections.   (20%)

Oversees day-to-day office duties; supervises and provides clerical operational support to assigned staff; maintains daily and monthly reports; monitors and performs the maintenance of voter registration records and lists.   (15%)

Prepares periodic and special reports including statistical reports to the Parties, statutory reports to Secretary of States office and audit reports to election for canvass.   (10%)

Provides information to the public by answering questions and resolving complaints regarding election/VR laws and procedures.   (10%)

Orders supplies for the Voter Registration department.   (5%)

Performs other job related duties as assigned.   (5%)
 

Experience:   A minimum of three (3) years of increasingly responsible general office work in voter registration and election systems.

Education:   Equivalent to a high school education.

Preferences:  Preference will be given to those with Microsoft Office including Access database experience and those with leadership experience.
 

Interpersonal Skills:   Ability to communicate effectively with other employees and the public in person or by phone. Ability to function as part of a team to accomplish the goals of the department.

Other Skills:   Must be a registered voter of Yavapai County.  Must successfully complete and maintain State of AZ Elections Certification. Extensive knowledge of oral and business English including filing systems. Considerable working knowledge of: Election, Voter Registration laws and rules regarding ADA, HAVA and privacy regulations; legal terminology, legal procedures, ARS Title 16 and State Procedures manual. Considerable knowledge of USPS guidelines including Pitney Bowes and other related equipment.

All full-time employees of Yavapai County are eligible for benefits. Every year the County contributes a set amount to apply towards the cost of Insurance. You can use these contributions to help pay for medical, dental, or vision coverage for you and your dependents. If the total cost of your benefit elections is more than the County's contributions, you will have to make additional contributions via payroll deductions. For a complete list of benefits, please visit:  Yavapai County Benefits Summary (Download PDF reader)


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Do you have a high school diploma or equivalent?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        How many months years of general office experience do you have?
        
        
                0 to 3 months
                More than 3 months but less than 6 months
                More than 6 months but less than 12 months
                More than 1 year but less than 2 years
                More than 2 years but less than 3 years
                More than 3 years but less than 4 years
                More than 4 years but less than 5 years
                5 or more years
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Do you have experience in voter registration and election systems?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        