Elections Manager
Recruitment #2015-13451-01
| Salary | $42.13 - $51.21 per hour |
|---|---|
| Department | Clerk-Recorder-Elections |
| Job Type | Open |
| Date Opened | 11/19/2015 5:30:00 PM |
| Filing Deadline | 2/29/2016 08:00:00 AM |
| Employment Type |
Permanent/Full Time (40 hrs/week)
|
| Work Location |
Auburn, CA and surrounding areas
|
| Additional Forms Required |
Veterans DD214 (if applicable) |
| HR Analyst | Kelly Tourville |
UPDATE:Â The final date for application submissions is Monday, February 29, 2016 at 8:00 AM.
This recruitment will be open until filled.
Application screenings will be held:
December 14, 2015 (for applications received on or before December 13, 2015.)
December 29, 2015Â (for applications received on or before December 28, 2015.)
January 19, 2016Â (for applications receivedÂ on or beforeÂ Monday, January 18,Â 2016 atÂ 11:00 PM.)
February 17, 2016 (for applications receivedÂ on or beforeÂ Monday, February 15,Â 2016 atÂ 11:00 PM.)
Additional screenings, if needed, will be posted at a later date.
The Placer County Clerk-Recorder-Elections Office has a current vacancy for a Recording/Elections Manager (Elections Manager).Â For additional information, please click here to view the recruitment brochure.
To plan, organize, direct and assist with the management of the activities of the assigned division within the County Clerk-Recorder/Elections Department, including either the planning, organizing, reporting and legal recording of all land transactions and other recordable documents within the County, or conducting all elections held within the County consistent with applicable Federal and State legislation and administrative procedures; to coordinate assigned division activities with other divisions,Â County departments, and agencies; and to provide highly complex staff assistance to the Assistant Registrar-Recorder, Assistant County Clerk, and the County Clerk-Recorder-Registrar of Voters.
The Manager level recognizes positions that provide full line and functional management responsibility for a division or program area within a department.
Receives general supervision from the Assistant Registrar-Recorder and administrative direction from the County Clerk-Recorder-Registrar of Voters.
Exercises direct supervision over supervisory, technical and clerical personnel.
Duties may include, but are not limited to, the following:
It is the applicant's responsibility to identify in their application materials how they meet the minimum qualifications listed below.
Experience: Five years of increasingly responsible experience in a County Clerk-Recorder'sÂ or Elections office, including two years of supervisory responsibility.
Training: Equivalent to a Bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university with major course work in business or public administration, business law, records management or a related field.
License or Certificate: May need to possess a valid driver's license as required by the position. Proof of adequate vehicle insurance and medical clearance may also be required.
Knowledge of:
Ability to:
Training & Experience Rating (100%)
Based upon responses to theÂ supplemental questionnaire, the applicantâs education, training and experience will be evaluated using a pre-determined formula.Â Scores from this evaluation will determine applicant ranking and placement on the eligible list.
All applicants who meet minimum qualifications will be required to respond to an online Conviction History Questionnaire, which will be sent as a link on their notification that minimum qualifications have been met.Â Failure to respond to this questionnaire within (3) three calendar days of the minimum qualification notification will result in disqualification from the examination.
Prior to the date of hire, applicants must undergo a fingerprint test by the Department of Justice, pass a medical examination, which may include a drug screening and possibly a psychological evaluation, sign a constitutional oath and submit proof of U.S. citizenship or legal right to remain and work in the U.S.Â For some positions, applicants may also be required to submit proof of age, undergo a background investigation and/or be bonded.
All new permanent employees, with the exception of sworn law enforcement and management, shall be required to join the employee organization or pay an 'Agency Fee' as a condition of employment.
The eligible list(s) resulting from this recruitment may be certified as a substitute list for a substantially similar classification.Â For this purpose, a substantially similar classification is one at a lower level in the same classification (example: entry level vs. journey) and/or a similar classification (similar work performed, similar training and experience qualifications required). If you are contacted for an interview by a County department, you will be informed of the classification and other relevant information. If you choose not to interview for a substantially similar classification, you will remain on the eligible list for which you originally applied.
Placer County now offers an expedited process for qualifying certain applicants for interviews. Candidates currently employed, or employed within the last year, by a public agency operating under a personnel civil service or merit system may be eligible to be placed on a Public Agency Eligible List and certified as eligible for appointment to a similar job assignment without going through the examination process. For more information on the Public Agency Eligible List, to download forms, or to apply, please visit our website at:
http://www.jobaps.com/placer/sup/abfreenames.asp.
Thank you for your interest in employment with Placer County. Placer County is an equal opportunity employer and is committed to an active nondiscrimination program. It is the stated policy of Placer County that harassment and retaliation is prohibited and that all employees and applicants shall receive equal consideration and treatment. All recruitment, hiring, transfer and promotion will be based on the qualifications of the individual for the positions being filled regardless of sex, sexual orientation, race, color, ancestry, religious creed, national origin, physical disability (Including HIV and AIDS), mental disability, medical condition (cancer or genetic characteristics/information), age (40 or over), marital status, pregnancy, childbirth and related medical conditions, or any other classification protected by federal, state or local laws or ordinance. Please contact the Personnel Department at least 5 working days before a scheduled examination if you require accommodation in the examination process. Medical disability verification may be required prior to accommodation.
The following information represents benefits currently available to permanent Placer County employees and may be subject to change.Â It is advisable that applicants inquire as to the most current benefit package during hiring interviews or by contacting the Personnel Department.
Tentative Recruitment Plan forÂ Next Screening:
1/19/20116Â Minimum Qualification Screening
1/22/2016 Training and Experience Rating
1/22/2016 Establish Eligible List
Click on the link below to apply:
| Fill out the Supplemental Questionnaire and Application NOW using the Internet. |