=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Deputy Registrar
Salary: $46,342.40 - $64,064.00 YEAR
Location: 2134 W Laburnum Avenue, VA, VA, 23219
Employer: City of Richmond
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2026-03-10
Job Type: Full-Time Permanent
Job Number: 17M00000002
Department: Office of Elections
Opening Date: 03/11/2026
Closing Date: 4/12/2026 11:59 PM Eastern

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Are you Richmond R.E.A.D.Y? Respect. Equity. Accountability. Diversity…YOU!!!
 
This is an EXCITING time to Join the City of Richmond! We are committed to nurturing talent, fostering growth opportunities, and building strong connections within our workforce. As we continue to make strides to becoming the employer of choice, we are thrilled about the below employee benefit enhancements:

Virginia Retirement System (VRS)
Language Incentive
Referral Bonus
Tuition Assistance Program

The Office of Elections is seeking to hire a candidate for the Deputy Registrar position. This position assists citizens register to vote and assists in the election process by providing clerical assistance and customer service. Incumbent will be responsible for maintaining accurate voter registration records and for providing election information and services to candidates and the general public. Incumbents may also train Elections officials on voting practices/eligibility. Incumbents may serve as lead workers, assigning work and monitoring work completion, especially to temporary or contract workers.

Note: This classification may work extended hours during elections.

Voter Registration: Process and review voter registration applications, including new registrations, updates, transfers and cancellations. 

Customer Service: Assist the public with questions regarding voter registration, elections laws, procedures, and timelines

Office Administration: Perform general clerical work such as filing, data entry, copying, scanning and maintaining office files. Help maintain office supplies and elections materials inventory.

Election Preparation and Support: Assist with set up for the election as needed. This could include tasks such as supporting absentee ballot processing, processing petitions signatures and staffing election worker training classes.

Training: Assist with showing other staff and voters how to complete various tasks that help ensure accurate and timely voter registration records.

MINIMUM TRAINING AND EXPERIENCE:

High School Diploma or G.E.D.
Three years of clerical/administrative experience
Two years of data entry experience.
An equivalent combination of training and experience (as approved by the department) may be used to meet the minimum qualifications of the classification



KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, AND ABILITIES:

TYPICAL KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, AND ABILITIES: These are a representative sample; position assignments may vary.

Knowledge (some combination of the following):

Microsoft Office Suite (Word, Excel, etc.)
CICS
VERIS voter registration system
Voter registration applications/forms
Virginia and City of Richmond election laws, policies, and procedures
Virginia voter eligibility requirements

Skills (some combination of the following):

Data entry
Interpersonal skills
Sorting and handling large amounts of mail and forms
Excellent customer service (both in person and over the phone)
Clerical skills
Corresponding with internal and external departments
Training others
Using standard office equipment such as fax machines, copiers, printers, phones, etc.

Abilities (some combination of the following):

Analyze information
Organize
Prioritize
Make important decisions
Multi-task
Problem solve



 

Equal Employment Opportunity Statement

The City of Richmond provides equal employment opportunities to all employees and applicants for employment and prohibits discrimination and harassment of any type without regard to race, color, religion, age, sex, national origin, disability status, genetics, protected veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, or any other characteristic protected by federal, state or local laws.

The City of Richmond is committed to the full inclusion of all qualified individuals. As part of this commitment, the City of Richmond will ensure that persons with disabilities are provided with reasonable accommodations. If you require reasonable accommodations under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) to participate in the job application and/or the interview process, please contact Jessica McKenzie, Human Resources Manager by email at Jessica.McKenzie@RVA.GOV.

This policy applies to all terms and conditions of employment, including recruitment, hiring, placement, promotion, termination, layoff, transfer, leaves of absence, compensation and training.

 

The City of Richmond Values Veterans. We are an official V3 Certified Company.

The City of Richmond is a proud partner with the US Army Partnership for Your Success PaYS Program.

 

With over 4,000 employees, the City of Richmond is an "Employer of Choice" among cities throughout the nation. The City strives to hire and retain employees who bring dedication and talent to the workforce. Offering a competitive, cost effective, and quality benefits package is one element of an "Employer of Choice". The City offers a full range of benefit programs from initial hire through retirement. Please visit our Web site for details.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        5-point veteran's must have been discharged under honorable conditions and had one of the following:
Active duty in the Armed Forces of the United States, in a war, or during the period 4/28/52-7/1/55 or active duty for more than 180 consecutive days other than for training, any part of which occurred during the period beginning 2/1/55 and 10/14/76 or active duty during the Gulf War sometime between 8/2/90 - 1/2/92 or active duty in a campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge has been authorized or active duty for which more than 180 consecutive days other than for training, any part of which occurred during the period beginning 9/11/2001 and ending on the date prescribed by the Presidential proclamation or by the law as the last date of operation Iraqi Freedom. Do any of these apply?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        10-point compensable veteran. You must have an existing compensable service-connected disability of 10 percent or more. Other 10-point veteran include disabled veteran or a veteran who was awarded the Purple Heart for wound or injuries received in action, veteran's widow or widower who has not remarried, wife or husband of a veteran who has a service-connected disability, widowed, divorced or separated mother of an ex-service son or daughter who died in action, or who is totally and permanently disabled. Do any of these apply?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        How familiar are you with processing voter registration applications (new registrations, updates, transfers, cancellations)?
        
        
                No experience
                Basic (done with supervision; can follow steps)
                Intermediate (independent; occasional guidance)
                Advanced (optimizes process; trains others)
                Expert (handles exceptions; recognized go-to)
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Which answer best describes your highest level of education?
        
        
                High School Diploma/ GED
                Associate's Degree
                Bachelor's Degree
                Master's Degree
                None of the above
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Have you used voter registration systems or case management tools (e.g., state VR databases)?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Rate your experience assisting the public with voter registration, election laws, procedures, and timelines.
        
        
                No experience
                Basic (done with supervision; can follow steps)
                Intermediate (independent; occasional guidance)
                Advanced (optimizes process; trains others)
                Expert (handles exceptions; recognized go-to)
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Rate your proficiency with Microsoft Excel (sorting, filters, basic formulas) and Outlook (shared mailboxes, calendar).
        
        
                No experience
                Basic (done with supervision; can follow steps)
                Intermediate (independent; occasional guidance)
                Advanced (optimizes process; trains others)
                Expert (handles exceptions; recognized go-to)
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have with clerical/administrative work?
        
        
                No experience
                Less than one year of experience
                Two to three years of experience
                Three or four years of experience
                Five or more years of experience
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have with with data entry?
        
        
                No Experience
                Less than one year
                Two years of experience
                Three years or more of experience
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        