=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Specialist
Salary: $51,667.20 - $75,483.20 YEAR
Location: 2134 W Laburnum Avenue, VA, VA, 23219
Employer: City of Richmond
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2026-03-10
Job Type: Full-Time Permanent
Job Number: 17M00000023 & 17M00000011
Department: Office of Elections
Opening Date: 03/11/2026
Closing Date: 4/12/2026 11:59 PM Eastern

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Are you Richmond R.E.A.D.Y? Respect. Equity. Accountability. Diversity…YOU!!!
 
This is an EXCITING time to Join the City of Richmond! We are committed to nurturing talent, fostering growth opportunities, and building strong connections within our workforce. As we continue to make strides to becoming the employer of choice, we are thrilled about the below employee benefit enhancements:

Virginia Retirement System (VRS)
Language Incentive
Referral Bonus
Tuition Assistance Program

The Office of Elections is seeking to hire two Elections Specialists. Incumbents will certify voting machines and ballot machines/scanners, train Officers of Elections on the use of voting machines and ballot machines, serve as rovers on election day, maintain the inventory and supplies of election operations, and act as a point of contact for outside vendors. Incumbents may serve as lead workers, assigning work and monitoring work completion for coworkers and temporary/contracted workers.

Develop and deliver training for poll workers on equipment setup, operations and troubleshooting
Update training manuals, guides and reference materials to ensure accuracy and clarity
Build and sustain relationships with polling locations to coordinate logistics and address site-specific needs
Manage and maintain election day management and asset management software, ensuring information is current and available for operational needs.
Maintain inventory and supplies by receiving, storing, securing and delivering election items.
Troubleshoot elections equipment, performs preventative maintenance, and request assistance with complex repairs.
Perform administrative tasks such as filling out paperwork related to work tasks and elections operations.
Help establish strategic plans for training election workers and maintaining election equipment.



MINIMUM TRAINING AND EXPERIENCE:

High School Diploma or equivalent (G.E.D) required
Related work experience with elections/voting machines and equipment
An equivalent combination of training and experience (as approved by the department) may be used to meet the minimum qualifications of the classification

KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, AND ABILITIES:
 TYPICAL KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, AND ABILITIES: These are a representative sample; position assignments may vary.
 
Knowledge (some combination of the following):

Operating and repairing elections/voting machines and related equipment e.g. DS200 ballot scanner/tabulator, Poll Pads, etc.
Databases such as VERIS (Virginia Elections Registration and Information System)
Relevant Wavelength certifications related to job duties
Inspecting voting precincts
Computer programs such as Microsoft Project or Canva for slide creation and training presentations.
English language including the meaning and spelling of words, composition, and grammar
Customer service principles
Using standard office equipment such as: computer, keyboard, monitor, copier, multi-functional printer, telephone, etc.


Skills (some combination of the following):

Truck Driving
Staging and set-up of voting equipment
Inventorying supplies and equipment
Packaging, shipping, and handling materials and supplies safely
Communicating with various internal and external departments
Oral and written communication

 
Abilities (some combination of the following):

Lead other employees
Manage multiple priorities and deadlines
Troubleshoot
Adapt
Multi-task
Problem solve



 

Equal Employment Opportunity Statement

The City of Richmond provides equal employment opportunities to all employees and applicants for employment and prohibits discrimination and harassment of any type without regard to race, color, religion, age, sex, national origin, disability status, genetics, protected veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, or any other characteristic protected by federal, state or local laws.

The City of Richmond is committed to the full inclusion of all qualified individuals. As part of this commitment, the City of Richmond will ensure that persons with disabilities are provided with reasonable accommodations. If you require reasonable accommodations under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) to participate in the job application and/or the interview process, please contact Jessica McKenzie, Human Resources Manager by email at Jessica.McKenzie@RVA.GOV.

This policy applies to all terms and conditions of employment, including recruitment, hiring, placement, promotion, termination, layoff, transfer, leaves of absence, compensation and training.

 

The City of Richmond Values Veterans. We are an official V3 Certified Company.

The City of Richmond is a proud partner with the US Army Partnership for Your Success PaYS Program.

 

With over 4,000 employees, the City of Richmond is an "Employer of Choice" among cities throughout the nation. The City strives to hire and retain employees who bring dedication and talent to the workforce. Offering a competitive, cost effective, and quality benefits package is one element of an "Employer of Choice". The City offers a full range of benefit programs from initial hire through retirement. Please visit our Web site for details.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        5-point veteran's must have been discharged under honorable conditions and had one of the following:
Active duty in the Armed Forces of the United States, in a war, or during the period 4/28/52-7/1/55 or active duty for more than 180 consecutive days other than for training, any part of which occurred during the period beginning 2/1/55 and 10/14/76 or active duty during the Gulf War sometime between 8/2/90 - 1/2/92 or active duty in a campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge has been authorized or active duty for which more than 180 consecutive days other than for training, any part of which occurred during the period beginning 9/11/2001 and ending on the date prescribed by the Presidential proclamation or by the law as the last date of operation Iraqi Freedom. Do any of these apply?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        10-point compensable veteran. You must have an existing compensable service-connected disability of 10 percent or more. Other 10-point veteran include disabled veteran or a veteran who was awarded the Purple Heart for wound or injuries received in action, veteran's widow or widower who has not remarried, wife or husband of a veteran who has a service-connected disability, widowed, divorced or separated mother of an ex-service son or daughter who died in action, or who is totally and permanently disabled. Do any of these apply?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Which answer best describes your highest level of education?
        
        
                High School Diploma/ GED
                Associate's Degree
                Bachelor's Degree
                Master's Degree
                None of the above
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        How much experience do you have developing and delivering training for poll workers on equipment setup, operations, and troubleshooting?
        
        
                No experience
                Basic
                Intermediate
                Advanced
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Rate your proficiency with Microsoft Excel (sorting, filters, basic formulas) and Outlook (shared mailboxes, calendar).
        
        
                No experience
                Basic
                Intermediate
                Advanced
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Rate your experience training staff or showing voters how to complete tasks to ensure accurate and timely records.
        
        
                No experience
                Basic
                Intermediate
                Advanced
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        