Founded in 2007 by former Senate Majority Leaders Howard Baker, Tom Daschle, Bob Dole, and George Mitchell, the Bipartisan Policy Center (BPC) is a leading nonprofit organization that drives principled solutions through rigorous analysis, reasoned negotiation, and respectful dialogue. By bringing together Republicans and Democrats—and providing them with the space, policy insights, and evidence-based research needed to negotiate in good faith—BPC helps turn legislators’ best ideas into passable, durable laws. In the 17+ years since its founding, BPC has played an integral role in countless legislative accomplishments.
With projects in multiple issue areas including economic policy, energy, health, housing, human capital and democracy, BPC combines politically balanced policy making with strong, proactive advocacy and outreach. As the only Washington, D.C.-based organization that actively promotes bipartisanship, BPC works to address the key challenges facing the nation. Its policy solutions are the product of informed deliberations by former elected and appointed officials, business and labor leaders, and academics and advocates who represent both sides of the political spectrum.
BPC is committed to seeing its policy solutions enacted by lawmakers. Through BPC Action, its (c)(4) affiliate, BPC engages in advocacy and strategic outreach and education to bolster the legislative center and support efforts that bring Republicans and Democrats together on the difficult issues facing the country. While a healthy, civil debate among those with differing viewpoints is an essential component of our democracy, the current partisan tone in government is impeding progress. Through the Democracy Program and bridge-building events, political summits and timely policy discussions, BPC is fostering an ongoing conversation about how to overcome political divides and help make our government work better.
Mission:
Elections Project
BPC is currently seeking a Senior Policy Analyst to support the work of the Elections Project, which is housed within BPC’s Democracy Program.
The Elections Project develops and advances durable bipartisan policy solutions to create secure, accessible, and trustworthy elections. We envision broad public trust in election outcomes where election administration is fully funded and continually improved with the input of election practitioners. Our work is guided by the idea that election policy must be resilient to shifting political winds and crafted with the input of election officials.
The Senior Policy Analyst will play a central role in the development and implementation of the Election Project’s research and advocacy priorities. This analyst role will focus on existing priorities of the Elections Project, including election administration workforce (recruitment, retention, and training), election infrastructure and technology, and supporting the needs of local election official associations. The analyst will also have the flexibility to explore research topics of their choice if those topics are in alignment with the needs of the project and of BPC.
Because the Elections Project takes an evidence-based approach and employs rigorous research methods, applicants must be experienced policy researchers and writers. Applicant experience might include leading white papers, blogs, research memos, or legislation. Applicants must also have strong oral communication skills and extensive experience communicating their research to a variety of audiences. The position will report to the Senior Associate Director of the Elections Project and work closely with others on BPC’s elections team.
Responsibilities:
Qualifications:
Research, writing, and relevant skills
Professional qualities
Education:
Application Process -- Applications close by the end of the day on April 5, 2026
Individuals interested in this position should submit a resume, cover letter, and two writing samples. The cover letter should include a brief description of the applicant’s role in producing each writing sample.
Candidates must be authorized to work in the United States. BPC does not sponsor employment visas.
BPC is proud to be an equal opportunity workplace dedicated to pursuing and hiring a diverse workforce.
Work Schedule
The work/life balance of employees is a priority for the Bipartisan Policy Center. As a result, BPC is currently operating on a hybrid schedule. Employees at BPC are currently working in the office Tuesday through Thursday. Occasional travel is expected throughout the calendar year.
In rare circumstances, we may consider candidates for this role who do not reside in the DC area. Frequent travel to DC will be expected.
Compensation and Benefits
BPC offers comprehensive health insurance benefits with a choice of open access HMO, POS, or PPO plan. HMO and POS individual plans have a monthly premium cost share of 10%. Dependent and Family HMO and POS plans are offered with a monthly cost share equal to 20% of the difference between the plan premium and the individual HMO monthly premium. PPO plans are offered with a 20% premium cost-share for all plans.
Additional benefits include 403(b) matching contributions of up to 7% of salary in addition to a non-elective contribution of 2% of salary (both after 90 days of employment); 15 vacation days, 2 personal days, 15 sick days, and 12 holidays per year; education benefits up to $5,250 per year after one year of employment; $2,000 for professional development expenses after six months of employment; Metro benefits of up to $130 per month; Company provided life insurance; and dental and vision insurance coverage with a Flexible Spending Plan.
We reasonably believe that the base salary range for this position is $70,000 – $95,000. At BPC, a wide range of factors are considered when making compensation decisions including and not limited to skill set, experience, training, education, knowledge, and other business and organizational needs.