=== JOB DETAILS ===

Salary: $18.00 - $20.00 Hourly
Location: Boulder, CO
Job Type: Hourly
Job Number: 2875(ZZ1)
Department: Clerk and Recorders Office
Division: CLK Elections
Opening Date: 11/21/2019
Closing Date: 12/5/2019 11:59 PM Mountain
FLSA: Non-Exempt

BENEFITS:
  • peace of mind for the future with PERA pension, PERA 401k, and Social Security retirement plans;
  • ways to get around town with discounts on the RTD Eco Pass;
  • paid medical leave;
  • the opportunity to take charge of your well-being through a nationally-recognized wellness program.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===



OVERVIEW: Assist Communications Specialist with various duties for the Clerk & Recorder office. The bulk of this time will focus on the work of the Elections Division; however, individual will assist in some tasks and communication campaigns that cover Motor Vehicle and Recording divisions.
 
DESCRIPTION OF WORK: This is an hourly, non-benefited position funded now through early December 2020. Ideal candidate can work between 18-30 / hours week. Hours/days are flexible to work around school or other existing work schedule. Occasional weekend or evening support may be needed. Pay is $18-20/hour.
 
The ideal candidate will have strong communications skills, familiarity with WordPress or similar website editing platforms, have a positive attitude, be able to take initiative, and be relatively outgoing. Great position for anyone interested in elections who is a junior, senior, recent graduate or graduate student in communications, marketing, journalism, political science, or related field.

This is an hourly. non-benefited position and is expected to end in December 2020. Work hours are flexible and will average 18 to 30 per week. The position works out of Boulder, CO.

Hiring wage range: $18 to $20 per hour

 

 

Support all communication, voter outreach and education for four upcoming elections: 2020 Presidential Primary; 2020 June Primary; 2020 General Election
Help plan and develop content to support social media for three divisions
Online research and list building for a variety of outreach and communication programs (elections and motor vehicle)
Conduct outreach to local high schools, businesses, community groups and local government to help support election and voter registration awareness. Also includes helping to arrange speaking engagements and assistance at those events
Proofreading and assisting with drafting public and press materials
Website editing – editing content, uploading documents, and writing website content as needed (WordPress); HTML experience a plus
Design work --ideal candidate has experience in or interest in learning how to create fun layouts like posters and social media memes. Will have access to Canva and Adobe Creative Cloud plus time to learn programs, as needed.
General office work – sign creation, tracking outreach, building lists, updating files, data entry, phone assistance, mail processing, etc.


EDUCATION: 

A high school diploma, or equivalent

EXPERIENCE:
At least 1-2 years of internship or previous office experience

DRIVER'S LICENSE:
Employee must have a valid Colorado driver's license and a good driving record (but no personal car needed)


PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS:

Adobe product experience a plus – or similar layout program (Canva, etc.)
Familiarity with Microsoft Suite and knowledge of government a plus
Managing social media accounts for an employer

KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, & ABILITIES:
Strong desire to learn about election processes, with understanding this is not a political position
Extreme flexibility and willingness to step up when and where needed; Strong problem-solving ability
Proven leadership skills, strong computer skills, and great attention to detail and follow-through on projects
Familiarity with Boulder County - ideally has been to Longmont, Lafayette, Louisville, etc. and feels comfortable exploring the area – delivering posters and other materials to various locations will be part of job

ABOUT THE CLERK & RECORDER'S OFFICE:
The Clerk and Recorder's Office is responsible for issuing and recording marriage licenses, recording all real estate transactions and similar transactions, registering voters, conducting all primary, general and county elections, and, when contracted, municipal and school district elections. The Clerk and Recorder's Office also operates the Motor Vehicle Divisions in the state of Colorado for titling vehicles and issuing license plates.


TO APPLY:
Please send a 1-page resume and SHORT cover note (may be just a few sentences on why position is interesting to you; does not need to be essay and do not repeat your resume) to Mircalla Wozniak, Communications Specialist – Mwozniak@BoulderCounty.org.  Applications accepted through Thursday, December 5

 

Along with offering competitive pay and a caring work environment, Boulder County offers hourly employees the following benefits: 	peace of mind for the future with PERA pension, PERA 401k, and Social Security retirement plans;	ways to get around town with discounts on the RTD Eco Pass;	paid medical leave;	the opportunity to take charge of your well-being through a nationally-recognized wellness program.