=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Deputy Auditor of Elections
Salary: $71,020.20 - $71,020.20 YEAR
Location: Nevada, IA, IA, 50201
Employer: Story County
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2025-08-03
Job Type: Full-Time
Job Number: DAE-FTE 8.25
Department: Auditor's Office
Opening Date: 08/04/2025
Closing Date: 8/17/2025 11:59 PM Central

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Oversees voter registration and election functions of the Auditor's Office, including staff maintenance of registration records and the conduct of federal, state and local elections pursuant to law; prepares mandated reports and legal publications; assists the general public and responds to requests for public information.

This position is appointed by and directly reports to the Story County Auditor.  Salary is set by the Auditor and is based upon a percentage of the Auditor's compensation.  Starting wage for this position will be $71,020.20 to $82,856.90. Salary is commensurate with experience.

Oversees voter registration records in compliance with state and federal law.

Prepares and implements a plan to conduct each election.

Prepares and monitors election-related budget items.

Monitors, researches, interprets, and administers federal, state, and county rules, regulations, and laws.

Maintains proper security of all election materials and equipment.

Understands and uses applicable software to prepare elections materials and equipment.

Maintains proper retention timeline of election materials as required.

Maintains and prepares voting equipment and conducts public testing.

Inspects and communicates with polling locations as required.

Manages and supervises employees.  

May perform the duties of other managers and the County Auditor in their absence.

Other duties as assigned.

KNOWLEDGE REQUIRED BY THE POSITION

Knowledge of federal, state, and local election laws and regulations.  
Knowledge of voter registration systems, absentee voting processes, and ballot printing and programming.    
Knowledge of the procedures neccessary to provide technical support on election equipment. 
Knowledge of office policies and procedures.
Knowledge of customer service principles and practices.
Skill in the use of computers and job-related software programs.
Skill in the operation of office equipment.
Skill in oral and written communication.
Skill in problem solving.
Skill in directing the work of personnel.
Skill in prioritizing and scheduling work.

Story County offers a comprehensive benefits package for employees regularly working 30 hours or more per week. Benefits are pro-rated for employees working between 30-39 hours per week. The benefits available include vacation, sick leave, family sick leave, life insurance and AD&D, short-term disability, long-term disability, health and dental insurance, vision insurance, flexible spending accounts, retirement and an employee assistance program.  Benefits may vary dependent on employment status and bargaining unit status.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        What is your understanding of what it means to be the appointed deputy of an elected official? What do you consider the most critical attributes for the position?
        
        
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        How would you describe your management style?
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        