=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: County Clerk
Salary: $84,635.20 - $124,467.20 YEAR
Location: County Clerk Office 275 W 10th Ave Eugene, OR
Employer: Lane County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2022-04-15
Job Type: Regular
Job Number: 202200238
Department: County Administration
Division: CAO CC County Clerk
Opening Date: 04/15/2022
Closing Date: 5/27/2022 12:00 AM Pacific
FLSA: Exempt
Bargaining Unit: 10

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Next Review Date of Applications: May 23, 2022

For more information about Lane County Administration & Elections: 
Lane County Clerk 

ABOUT THE POSITION
Lane County is seeking a proven leader with experience in elections and real property records. The County Clerk leads a dedicated team that performs their work with accuracy and integrity. The successful candidate is someone who demonstrates a passion to serve the community, high level of attention to detail, and strong communication skills while interacting with the public, elected officials, and outside agencies.

The County Clerk is responsible for planning, organizing, and conducting all regular and special elections, voter registration, property tax appeals, permanent real property records, marriage licensing, domestic partnership registrations, and archived records management while ensuring compliance with all applicable Federal, State, and Local laws. Additional duties include preparing, reviewing and analyzing data, working with a staff of 14 full-time employees, budget and financial management, and managing technology solutions that support County Clerk operations.

ABOUT THE DIVISION
The County Clerk will administer all federal, state, and local laws as they apply to conducting elections, processing voter registration, recording land documents, and issuing marriage licenses, while maintaining the highest degree of integrity and accuracy, and providing exceptional customer service. 
Lane County Elections
 
**YOU ARE REQUIRED TO UPLOAD A RESUME & COVER LETTER FOR THIS POSITION.**
If not attached, your application will not be considered.

Cover letter requirements:
Please address your experience in the following areas:
Conducting public elections and related activities
Management of public records related to real property, marriage licenses, etc.
Schedule: Monday – Friday; 8:00am – 5:00pm. Evening and weekend hours as needed.



*This is a non-represented position*

Training:
Bachelor's Degree in a related field such as: civics & government, public or business administration, PPPM, non-profit management, etc.

Experience:
Five years of progressively responsible experience related to area assigned: public elections, managing vote by mail elections, including supervisory experience; or an equivalent combination of education and experience sufficient to successfully perform the essential duties of the job such as those listed above.

Special Requirements:
Experience organizing, directing, and implementing comprehensive programs.
Planning and organizing large-scale election activities.
Gathering and analyzing data to prepare narrative and statistical reports and information.
Being politically astute and diplomatic with the ability to communicate with a wide variety of constituencies in a clear, concise, and credible manner.
Ability to think clearly and effectively under pressure.
Notes:
This position is subject to a full criminal offender information record check. If fingerprinting is required, the fee is paid for by the successful candidate and the expense is non-reimbursable.  

In accordance with county policy, the incumbent of this position is required to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19, or have an approved medical or religious exception, prior to starting work




Equal Employment Opportunity 
Lane County is an Equal Opportunity Employer. We value diversity, equity, and inclusion as essential elements that create and foster a welcoming workplace.  All qualified persons will be considered for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, political affiliation, disability or any other factor unrelated to the essential functions of the job.    

Strategic Plan 
In alignment with Lane County's Strategic Plan, incumbent(s) will be expected to demonstrate the following core behaviors: Passion to Serve, Driven to Connect, and Focused on Solutions.  
The 2022 - 2024 Strategic Plan (Download PDF reader) focuses on the areas that Lane County will pursue as a way to deliver on our vision for the residents of Lane County. To meet these challenges, we know that the basis of our efforts lies in leveraging our people and partnerships to achieve our Strategic Priorities. We also recognize that the quality and commitment of our staff is essential to a shared future where Lane County is the best place in which to live, work, and play.  
 
Veteran's Preference Points 
Veteran Preference Information

Careers with Lane County Offer Extraordinary BenefitsAt Lane County, we value our employees and we show it with our extraordinary benefits. We know that you chose public service for more than a paycheck, and our outstanding benefits are designed to help you Live Well, Live Lane - throughout your career. Read on to learn what great benefits await you in a career with Lane County.Introducing ALEX, Lane County's benefit advisor! ALEX is an interactive tool that will help you understand the benefits being offered, out of pocket expenses and coverage available. You will need the Collective Bargaining Unit found in your job posting and when asked for your date of hire, please put in today's date.   ALEX Benefit Advisor (click here)Collective Bargaining Units:Admin-ProAFSCMEAFSCME NursesAFSCME PhysiciansFOPPOLCPOALocal 626Prosecuting Attorney's Benefits to keep you & your family well - PhysicallyHealth insurance coverage becomes effective the first of the month following your first 30 days as an eligible employee.Medical/Rx/Vision - Lane County offers medical, prescription and vision exam coverage for you and your eligible dependents. The plan options and costs per month for 2018 are outlined below:If you enroll in the HDHP the County will contribute to your HSA: $1,500 (individual) or $3,000 (family) annually. This amount is prorated based on date of hire.Eligible employees who complete a Health History Risk Assessment (HHRA), Biometric Screening, and Comprehensive Health Review (CHR) at the Live Well Center receive a $20 per month credit.Wellness Clinic - The Live Well Center is for Lane County benefits-eligible employees, spouses and dependents (ages 2 and up) who are enrolled in the Lane County health plan. Marathon Health manages the Live Well Center and their clinical team provides confidential, affordable care for your acute and preventive healthcare needs. The Live Well Center also provides health coaching, chronic disease counseling, comprehensive primary care services, and much more.Dental - Lane County provides dental coverage for employees and their eligible dependents.Employee Assistance Program (EAP) - Lane County provides this counseling and concierge service to employees and members of their immediate households.Fitness Center Membership - Lane County provides employees with a free membership to a local fitness center. Employees may add their families at a discounted rate.Benefits to keep you & your family well - Financially Retirement - Lane County pays for, and enrolls employees in the Oregon Public Service Retirement Plan (OPSRP) and the Individual Account Program (IAP) following six full months of employment. (Current members are eligible upon hire.)Disability - Lane County pays a portion of wages for eligible employees through Short-Term Disability, and provides Long-Term Disability coverage. Lane County complies with all State and Federal disability laws for employee, family, parental and pregnancy leaves regulations.Time Management - Lane County provides employees with a generous bank of hours to be used for sick, vacation, family emergencies and personal days.Holidays - Lane County provides 10 paid holidays per year:New Year's Day                                   Independence DayMartin Luther King Jr's Birthday        Labor DayPresidents' Day                                   Veterans' DayMemorial Day                                      Thanksgiving DayJuneteenth                                          Christmas DayLife Insurance - Lane County pays for employee group term life insurance.County-paid training & development to keep your career well On-site Classes - Lane County offers a variety of on-site classes to develop employees' soft and technical skills.Online Training - Lane County offers a variety of online classes through LEAP to help employees continually improve their skills.Conferences & Seminars - Lane County pays for employees to attend professional conferences to encourage continuous learning and professional development.Lane County offers these other valuable benefitsDeferred Compensation Retirement Savings - Employees may enroll in a deferred compensation program 457(b) to save for retirement.Vision - Eligible employees may purchase supplemental vision insurance.Supplemental Life Insurance - Employees may purchase supplemental life insurance for themselves and their dependents/spouse.Aflac - Optional employee-paid voluntary group coverage is available through Aflac.Group Discounts - Group discounts may include homeowners and auto insurance, pet health insurance, credit union membership.The above information describes typical benefits available for Regular Full-time Employees. Actual benefits received may differ by position, employment status (regular, temporary, or extra help) and/or bargaining group. Paid medical, dental and vision coverage for dependents is determined by labor agreement or APM, as applicable. Physicians should contact their supervisor for health plan options and rates. Please note that Temporary and Extra Help positions are not typically eligible for benefits. This is only brief summary of benefits available to eligible Lane County employees. In all cases, plan documents govern. For additional information about these extraordinary benefits contact the Benefit Resource Center at 1-866-468-7272, or Lane County HR at (541) 682-3124.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        I acknowledge that I have fully completed my application AND attached the required cover letter and resume as instructed in the posting. 
Please Note: Your cover letter and resume are reviewed indepentently from your application.
        
        
                I agree
                I disagree (please note; by not attaching the required documentation your application will not be referred for further consideration.)
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        In accordance with county policy, the incumbent of this position is required to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19, or have an approved medical or religious exception, prior to starting work. Are you willing and able to comply with this requirement?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Do you have a Bachelor's degree or equivalent experience? (Four years experience.)
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Do you have five years' experience working in elections?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        