=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: LAN Administrator - Journey
Salary: $75,332.82 - $95,489.26 YEAR
Location: WA 98057-2906, WA, WA, 98104
Employer: King County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2022-04-14
Job Type: zzDNU_Special Duty Assign or Term Ltdt Temp (TLT)
Job Number: 2022RL15897
Department: KCE - King County Elections
Division: Technical Services
Opening Date: 04/14/2022
Closing Date: 5/2/2022 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Exempt
Bargaining Unit: C19 : PROTEC17-Information Tech
Full- or Part-Time: Full Time

BENEFITS:
  • Excellent medical, dental, and vision coverage options: King County provides eligible employees with options, so they can decide what’s best for themselves and their eligible dependents
  • Life and disability insurance: employees are provided basic coverage and given the opportunity to purchase additional insurance for both the employee and eligible dependents
  • Retirement: eligible King County employees may participate in a pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems and a 457(b) deferred-compensation plan
  • Transportation program and ORCA transit pass
  • 12 paid holidays each year plus two personal holidays
  • Generous vacation and paid sick leave
  • Paid parental, family and medical, and volunteer leaves
  • Flexible Spending Account
  • Wellness programs
  • Onsite activity centers
  • Employee Giving Program
  • Employee assistance programs
  • Flexible schedules and telecommuting options, depending on position
  • Training and career development programs

For additional information about employee benefits, visit our
Benefits, Payroll, and Retirement Page
.
This is a general description of the benefits offered to eligible King County employees, and every effort has been made to ensure its accuracy.  If any information on this document conflicts with the provisions of a collective bargaining agreement (CBA), the CBA prevails.
NOTE:
Benefits for Term Limited Temporary (TLT) or Short Term Temporary (STT) positions, including leave eligibility and/or participation in the pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems, will vary based upon the terms and details of the position. Short Term Temporary positions are not eligible for an ORCA transit pass.
For inquiries about the specifics of this position, please contact the recruiter identified on this job posting.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

This is an amazing opportunity to be engaged in the election process!

   
This benefits-eligible Term-Limited Temporary (TLT) position is anticipated to last for 6 months.  A Special Duty Assignment may be considered for King County Career Service employees who have passed their initial probationary period.  
 
King County Department of Elections (KCE) is searching for an energetic and resourceful professional who likes to "get stuff done." The LAN Administrator - Journey position in the Elections Department combines an exciting environment with the opportunity to cultivate talents and apply a variety of skills. The ideal candidate will thrive in an innovative, fast-paced environment and will not hesitate to roll up both sleeves, work hard, have fun, and get the job done.
 
This position is responsible for the build and support of laptops, desktops, and all other Elections auxiliary technology equipment. Duties include providing workstation provisioning, imaging, and support for Office 365. This position will also resolve software and hardware problems for end users locally and remotely; maintain end user hardware and software and the inventory of such; and be primary back-up for account setup, administration and management. This position reports to the Information Technology Division Director.
 
Who We Are:  King County Elections (KCE) manages voter registrations and elections for more than 1.4 million voters in King County, one of the largest vote-by-mail counties in the United States. KCE's mission is to conduct accessible, secure, and accurate elections.  As a leader in providing inclusive elections, KCE is focused on three key priorities – (1) actively identifying and working to remove barriers to voting at both the individual and community level, (2) strengthening relationships with community and governmental partners, and (3) creating a culture of professional growth and development, openness and inclusion. Learn more at www.kingcounty.gov/elections.aspx .
 
Who May Apply: This position is open to all qualified applicants.  Applications will be screened for qualifications and completion of all the required materials and forms.  The most competitive applicants may be contacted for further steps in the selection process.
 
Materials Required to Apply:  A completed online King County employment Application. A cover letter and resume are highly encouraged to submit with your materials. The cover letter should describe how your skills and experience meet or exceed the requirements of the job.
 
Work Location(s): This position is located at Renton Elections Building, 919 SW Grady Way, Renton, WA 98057.  During 2022, the majority of the work will be performed through telecommuting.   When the KCE Vote Centers are open throughout King County during an election, travel may be required to these centers.
 
Work Schedule: This position is exempt from the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) and is not overtime eligible. The workweek is typically 40 hours per week, 7:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. Candidates are required to be available to work additional hours, which may include evenings and weekends, during the Election cycle and as needed to support the business or to respond to service issues or failures.

In order to be considered for this opportunity, you must demonstrate knowledge, skill, and ability to:



Maintain Elections workstations: order, provision, build the workstations with the appropriate KCE image, assign, and familiarize staff with equipment. 
Image, build, and deploy microcomputers to replace older desktops. This will include the decommissioning, tracking, and final disposal either through surplus or ecycle of the old equipment.
Be part of the Elections IT team to provide frontline support and help desk support – tier 1 – 3 depending upon technology. 
Trouble shoot, problem solve, diagnose, and resolve problems locally and remotely; maintain end user hardware and software. 
Utilize a remote access tool to support end-users. 
Maintain the virtual inventory of hardware and software; track software licenses and renewals; track system certification and renewals. 
Maintain the physical inventory and storage in an efficient and organized manner. 
Administrate and support the phones and cell phones; support the call center software questions (INContact), support with AV equipment and Surface Hubs. 
Install and support the auxiliary end-user equipment, such as, Dymo printers, scanners, docking stations, monitors. 
Be the back-up to administrate the Elections Active Directory (AD) and group policies to add, terminate, or delete accounts to support the election cycle. 
Maintain and troubleshoot connectivity problems and remote access issues. 
Responsible for use of best practice in laptop and PC security and patching and network connectivity. 
Escalate/refer unresolved problems to appropriate resources within KCIT. 
Consult with other IT staff with regard to security, best practice and county IT standards. 
Assure and enforce compliance with King County IT policies.

We are looking for candidates who:


Have knowledge of information technology productivity tools: laptops, desktops, microPCs, systems, principles and techniques. 
Have knowledge of Microsoft Windows 10 and O365 including installation and troubleshooting and the use of imaging technology such as Symantec Ghost.
Are comfortable providing On-site and remote user technology support. 
Understands patch management and security management. Can conduct root cause analysis and problem management. 
Can successfully prioritize and manage multiple competing or emerging issues. 
Understand Windows Active Directory, Group Policies, and best practices for system management. 
Is a team player and customer focused in their approach to their work.

Travel to work locations throughout King County with limited or no public transportation services is required. A valid Washington State Driver's License is required to operate King County vehicles.
 
Physical Requirements:  Must be able to frequently lift and move up to 40 pounds without assistance and be able to bend, twist, kneel, and work in confined spaces for several hours at a time multiple, times per year.
 
Union Representation: This position is represented by Protec17 - IT
 
Temporary Telecommuting Requirement 
The work associated with this position will be performed through a combination of teleworking complemented with onsite work and meetings as needed.  Employees must reside in Washington state and within a reasonable distance to their King County worksite to respond to workplace reporting requirements.
 
Employees will be provided with a County issued laptop and must maintain a workspace with an internet connection (access may be supplemented in some situations) where they can reliably perform work and remain available and responsive during scheduled work hours. Please note that when an employee conducts work that is likely to bring them in contact with another individual, safety precautions are required, including the wearing of masks in some situations. King County is doing its part to reduce the spread of COVID-19 and remains committed to reducing our carbon footprint.
   
King County has a robust collection of tools and resources to support working remotely. The individual selected for this opportunity will be joining an innovative and progressive team that is redefining how we work as we transition to the department's hybrid environment.  
   
Forbes recently named King County as one of Washington State's best employers.
           
Together, with leadership and our employees, we're changing the way government delivers service and winning national recognition as a model of excellence. Are you ready to make a difference? Come join the team dedicated to serving one of the nation's best places to live, work and play.
   
Guided by our "True North", we are making King County a welcoming community where every person can thrive. We value diversity, inclusion and belonging in our workplace and workforce. To reach this goal we are committed to workforce equity. Equitable recruiting, support, and retention is how we will obtain the highest quality workforce in our region; a workforce that shares and will help advance our guiding principles--we are one team; we solve problems; we focus on the customer; we drive for results; we are racially just; we respect all people; we lead the way; and we are responsible stewards. We encourage people of all backgrounds and identities to apply, including Native American and people of color, immigrants, refugees, women, LGBTQ+, people living with disabilities, and veterans.
 
Covid-19 Vaccination Requirement
 
King County Executive Branch employees are required to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. If you are the successful candidate for the position you applied for, the County will send you a conditional offer letter.
 
As a condition of employment, prior to a final offer of employment, you will be required to:


submit proof of vaccination or
have an approved request for medical or religious exemption and an approved accommodation. Philosophical, political, scientific, or sociological objections to vaccination will not be considered for an exemption or accommodation.
People are considered fully vaccinated against COVID-19 two weeks after receiving the final dose of a vaccination approved by the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
 
The Executive Branch includes employees in the Executive branch, the Assessor’s Office, Elections, the King County Sheriff’s Office, and the Executive Office.
   
King County is an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Employer
No person is unlawfully excluded from employment opportunities based on race, color, religion, national origin, sex (including gender identity, sexual orientation and pregnancy), age, genetic information, disability, veteran status, or other protected class. Our EEO policy applies to all employment actions, including but not limited to recruitment, hiring, selection for training, promotion, transfer, demotion, layoff, termination, rates of pay or other forms of compensation.
 
To Apply 
If you are interested in pursuing this position, please follow the application instructions carefully. If you need this announcement in an alternate language or format, would like to request accommodation or assistance in the application or assessment process or if you have questions please contact your recruiter listed on this job announcement.
   
 For more information regarding this recruitment, please contact: 
    Reeshema Lewis
    Sr. HR Business Partner
    Email:  Reeshema.Lewis@kingcounty.gov 
    Phone: 206-263-8413