=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Supervisor
Salary: $77,966.04 - $94,726.08 YEAR
Location: OR, OR, OR, 97124
Employer: Washington County, Oregon
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2022-06-25
Job Type: Full Time Regular
Job Number: 21/22-166-A&T
Department: Assessment and Taxation
Division: Elections
Opening Date: 06/25/2022
Closing Date: 7/17/2022 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Exempt

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===




This position has a new salary range from $6,497.17 to $7,893.84 per month approved by the Board. This new salary range will be effective July 9, 2022.

We invite you to be part of the fundamental process of a democracy and serve approximately 400,000 voters in Washington County as an Elections Supervisor. The Elections Supervisor is responsible for running four (4) annual elections: two countywide elections, one half-county election, and one quarter-county election. In this position, you will be responsible for tracking local, state, and federal candidates and positions, as well as money measures, and the many facets of the elections process including candidate filings, creation of ballots and voter pamphlets, the counting of the ballots, and the reporting of final voter results for Washington County.

 

You will also supervise, lead, and train a team of nine (9), as well as temporary employees hired during election seasons, on election duties. Additionally, you will coordinate day-to-day activities and help plan and schedule all functions necessary in an election (i.e., mandatory timelines for various mailings, registration cutoffs, public notices, and all elements related to statutory dates). Most importantly, you will have the opportunity to communicate effectively, exercise sound decision-making and demonstrate collaboration and accountability to peers, the team and the public. For a complete list of essential job duties, click here.
 
The Elections Office is highly driven by the many hands that help in the election process, the sophisticated elections equipment, the production elements of a successful election event, and the dedicated knowledge of supervision and understanding of Oregon Election laws and rules. If you enjoy working in a highly visible office and in a fast-paced, production-oriented environment, then we invite you to apply for the Elections Supervisor position!  


About the Department
In Assessment and Taxation (A&T), we are extremely interested in reflecting the many cultures that exist within the county, which we know will only strengthen and bring improvements to the work we do in our department. A&T leadership wholeheartedly encourages and supports the success of all our employees through training, mentoring, and coaching. Together, we continue to build an inclusive culture that encourages, supports, and celebrates the diverse voices of our employees. With the help of every employee, our customers, our partners, and our community – we can achieve our mission of equity for all!
 
About You

Knowledgeable & Experience: You understand the principles, practices, and procedures of the election process as well as the current methods and techniques of elections. You have experiencing applying the laws, rules and regulations, policies, and procedures in the supervision and coordination of elections.
Tech Savvy: You are savvy with production equipment and technology, and stay current with information, technology, and trends.
Leader: You are a natural-born leader with strong supervisory experience. You enjoy working with people of diverse backgrounds. You excel at being a project lead and you take personal responsibility for your individual success and the success of your team.

 

Minimum Qualifications (MQs)

Possession of a high school diploma or equivalent; AND
Five (5) years of elections processing, clerical, production or manufacturing line, or closely-related work experience; AND
Two (2) years of experience must be in a supervisory or leadership capacity with responsibilities of reviewing the work of others, providing guidance and technical expertise to others, providing input for performance evaluations, and/or making recommendations in the hiring process.
Education may substitute for up to four (4) years of work experience.

 

Additional Requirements

Must possess a valid driver's license and have an acceptable driving record per Washington County policy.
Must pass a post-offer criminal background check.



NEXT STEPS

Apply today! Instead of submitting a resume, we ask that you complete and submit an online application, which will be used to screen for minimum qualifications (MQs) and to determine starting pay in accordance with the provision of the Oregon Equal Pay Law. 
MQ Review: Your friendly neighborhood Talent Acquisition Business Partner (recruiter) will screen applications for MQs beginning the week after the posting closes.
Subject Matter Expert Review: Your responses to supplemental questions 8 - 10 will be evaluated and scored by a panel of subject matter experts. Your total score for this examination will affect your placement on the eligible list (a list of candidates eligible for interviews).
Panel Interview(s): The top 6 – 8 candidates will be invited to participate in a panel.
Reference Checks: The hiring manager will conduct reference checks.
Salary Analysis & Conditional Offer: Human Resources will conduct a salary analysis for the successful candidate(s) and extend a conditional offer of appointment.
Post-Offer Checks: Human Resources will conduct a driving records check and criminal background check.
Start Date: A start date will be determined after all conditions of employment have been met.  








We are committed to using a merit-based system in which recruiting, selecting, and advancing employees is based on their relative knowledge, skills, and abilities. Washington County values a culture of equity, diverse perspectives, and life experiences. Our organization embraces innovation, collaboration and work-life harmony. We offer job stability, a comprehensive benefits package, and an opportunity to serve and support our diverse community. We are an equal opportunity employer with a commitment to diversity and an inclusive workforce. Women, minorities, veterans, and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply. 

Veterans' Preference: If you are a veteran and would like to request veterans' preference points for this recruitment, please review instructions using this link: Veterans' Preference Points (Download PDF reader) (Download PDF reader).
Accommodation under the Americans with Disabilities Act: A reasonable accommodation is available to anyone whose specific disability prevents them from completing this application or participating in the selection process for this recruitment. To obtain confidential assistance, please contact Human Resources at 503-846-8606 or hr@co.washington.or.us at least 48 hours before the step(s) of the selection process for which you feel you need an accommodation.

 
    Additional Resources

Questions about this recruitment?  Contact Jasmine Cardenas, Talent Acquisition Business Partner at jasmine_cardenas@co.washington.or.us.
New to GovernmentJobs.com? Visit https://www.governmentjobs.com/home/applicationguide for a comprehensive, step-by-step guide on the application process.
Need technical support? Call Government Jobs' Live Application Support at 855-524-5627.

Learn more about this exciting opportunity!
All interested individuals are invited to participate in an (optional) informational Q & A session. During this informational session, you will:
Meet our Washington County Elections team
Hear about a day in the life of the Elections Supervisor
Learn about the application process

WHEN: Wednesday, July 13, 2022 at 4:30

WHERE: Register for this Q&A session by emailing Veronica Garcia at Veronica_Garcia@co.washington.or.us and have a Zoom link sent to you.  

Management, Administrative and Professional Personnel System (MAPPS) - FLSA exempt employees are paid on a salaried basis. The premise of salaried/exempt employment is that established compensation recognizes the time and effort needed to accomplish all assigned job duties. Job responsibilities may require work outside of the employee's standard work week or a work week in excess of 40 hours.For more information on the MAPPS policy, please review the specific document using this link:Click HereThis position is not represented under a collective bargaining agreement.Regular and limited duration full-time employees working 30 hours or more per week and job share employees are eligible for benefits beginning on the first of the month following employment. Job share employees are responsible for 50% of the premium. Part-time regular, variable hour, and temporary positions are not eligible for medical, dental, and vision benefits. Check Out Our Award-Winning Benefits & Wellness Program!   Washington County values your dedication to lead the future of our community through public service. Our total compensation package, which is comprised of more than just your annual salary, was built to show our commitment to the physical and financial health and wellbeing of you and your family. Your total compensation package includes a comprehensive benefits program with medical, dental, and vision coverage at up to 95% employer paid! Other benefits you’ll enjoy as part of your total compensation package include:	Paid Time Off - 11 paid holidays including one floating holiday, 12 vacation days for new employees (accrual rates increase based on length of service), AND up to 96 hours of sick leave per year (unused sick leave accumulates from year to year without limit to provide pay and security if needed).	Wellness Program - Washington County has been named one of Oregon’s Healthiest Employers by the Portland Business Journal for the past 7 years. We are proud to receive this award and will continue to make your health and wellbeing a priority by providing resources and support to help you and your family live and work well. Resources include smoking cessation, weight management, and stress management classes (online or telephonic with a personal health coach); discounts on gym memberships, fitness activities, and sports tickets; and Health & Wellness events and onsite flu shot clinics.	Alternative Care Coverage	Health Care and Dependent Care Flexible Spending Accounts (FSAs)	Employee Assistance Program (EAP)	Life and Disability Insurance (both County-provided and voluntary)	Oregon Public Employees Retirement System (PERS)	457b Deferred Compensation Plan	Emergency Travel Assistance	TriMet Hop Card at no cost to the employee	Bike lockers and repair stations	A charitable giving program	Oregon College Savings PlanTo learn more about our Benefits and Wellness program and view our current benefits guide, plan summaries, and premium rates, click here.Already have medical, dental, and vision coverage? No problem! Full-time employees who choose to waive medical, dental, and vision coverage will receive a $125 monthly contribution into a tax-free Health Reimbursement Arrangement (HRA) VEBA account, which can be used to reimburse you for qualified out-of-pocket medical care costs, such as copays, deductibles, and prescription drugs. HRA accounts offer many benefits including significant tax savings, and no annual “use it or lose it” requirement. Proof of other creditable coverage is required.