=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Voter Information Coordinator (Elections Specialist)
Salary: $31.42 - $39.73 HOUR
Location: Tacoma, WA, WA, 98409
Employer: Pierce County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2021-01-05
Job Type: Career Service - Full Time
Job Number: 21-00043
Department: Auditor
Division: Auditor-Elections
Opening Date: 01/05/2021
Closing Date: 2/4/2021 2:00 PM Pacific

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===


Why This is a Great Opportunity:  
This individual will play an integral part in carrying out and conducting elections in Pierce County and in the day to day operations. This position supports the foundational aspect of our democratic process while providing services and outreach to our customers.

Why It's a Great Department:  
The Auditor’s Office has an excellent reputation for being a supportive employer with open communication, collaboration, and the potential for promotional opportunities. We offer a competitive salary and benefits plan as well as the opportunity to be a part of a collaborative team. Our office is also at the forefront of innovation and process improvement.

About the Division:
The Auditor's Elections Division maintains voter registration rolls, conducts federal, state and local elections, verifies petition signatures, publishes a local Voters' Pamphlet, and maintains precinct lines after redistricting. Pierce County has over 560,000 registered voters and serves 114 jurisdictions and files candidates for over 500 elected offices. 

The work of Pierce County Elections is consistently 24/7 - action-packed and exciting. Whether it is Election Day or another day of the year, effort is being made to continuously improve the voter experience and the technology of elections. We're a workplace family that cares more than just about the daily grind. We are proud of the work we do; it's award-winning and well-respected throughout Washington State.  

How to be Successful in the Role:  
Take ownership of voter outreach for Pierce County and improve/maintain voter engagement. Successfully produce county-wide local voters’ pamphlet for all elections.

Your Future in this Role: 
This position is a perfect foundation for future leadership positions within the Auditor's Office and Pierce County. 

As a condition of employment, the applicant will need to authorize and complete a background check. Information received from the background check is reviewed case-by-case and will not necessarily remove an applicant from consideration. 

Core Daily Responsibilities:


Design and produce all publications, reports, manuals, flyers, legal advertisements, related election materials including Voter Pamphlets, and all jobs using a variety of desktop publishing software.
Perform quality control work including proofreading, grammar, and spelling.
Create and manage the voter pamphlet including submission of statements from candidates and committees.
Active role in candidate filing and resolution submission. This work includes communicating with candidates and jurisdictions.
Create ballot inserts for each election.
Coordinate the language translation program of the voter pamphlet, ballot materials, and voter outreach materials. Work in conjunction with office media specialist to update and maintain social media accounts.
Update website with relevant election information.

Core Strategic Responsibilities:

Produce an accurate Voters' Pamphlet for each election. 
Voter outreach to live and virtual audiences, upon request attend community events to educate prospective voters, supports school districts, colleges and universities with election related events and programs (Temperance and Good Citizenship Day, Future Voter, Rock the Vote and Student Engagement Hubs).

MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS TO APPLY:

Four years of general clerical experience required. 
Two years Elections related experience preferred.
Graphic Design experience preferred.
Experience working in a lead or supervisory role and Certification as an Elections Administrator under (WAC) and (RCW) regulations are preferred. 
Additional education or related experience may be substituted equally for the recruiting requirements. 
SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS AND/OR QUALIFICATIONS:
A valid Washington State driver’s license may be required when travel is required of the position. 
Special Note: Employees in this class may be limited as to vacation during the primary and general election season and will be required to work extended hours, on-call, or alternate hours during an election cycle.

To be considered for this opportunity please:
Required:  Complete and submit an online Pierce County Employment Application by selecting "APPLY" above or go to:   www.piercecountywa.org/jobs. 
If you do not have internet access, you may visit your local public library or any WorkSource location and use their computers.
Individuals needing accommodation in the application, testing process or need this job announcement in an alternative format may call Human Resources at (253) 798-7480, at least two days prior to the need. 

This is a competitive selection process.  Your application form will be reviewed and evaluated for the quality and quantity of education/experience in the areas listed.  Applicants whose qualifications most closely correspond to the County's needs will be eligible for further consideration.  Notification of application status normally occurs 4 to 6 weeks after the closing date.  Short notice may be given to applicants to participate in further selection processes which may include written, oral and performance examinations, and final interviews.

As an Equal Employment Opportunity Employer, Pierce County welcomes a diverse workforce.  Pierce County does not discriminate based on race, creed, religion, color, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, marital status, age, disability, veteran status, the presence of any sensory, mental, or physical disability, or the use of a trained guide dog or service animal by a disabled person.

At Pierce County, diversity, equity, and inclusion means commitment, not a single step. We strive to foster an inclusive environment that supports equitable access to opportunities throughout your career. We want to recruit, develop, and maintain a talented workforce from various backgrounds, cultures, lifestyles, and perspectives, committed to our vision.  Employees of the County have local, direct, and visible impact in our diverse community. Will you join us in keeping Pierce County a great place to live, work, and raise a family?

Employee benefits are not just about the kind of services you get, they are also about how much you may have to pay out of pocket. Pierce County offers a competitive benefits package that offers flexibility and peace of mind. We are proud to offer Employee Resource Groups, a focus on professional development in our Leadership Training Program, and a County Book Club. We understand that your life revolves around more than just your career and that your priority is making sure that you and your family maintain health and financial security. That's why choice is a key component of our benefits package. We have a selection of health and retirement plans, paid leave, staff training and other compensation benefits that you can mix and match to meet your current and future needs.Our benefits:Vacation (Annual Leave)After approximately six months, employees receive six days of vacation leave. Since we value your experience, the amount of vacation you can accrue increases the longer you work with us. Vacation accrues on a bi-weekly basis for full-time employees as follows:Vacation Accruals:During years 1-3, 12 DaysDuring years 4-7, 16 DaysDuring years 8-13, 20 DaysDuring years 14-18, 23 DaysDuring years 19, 24 DaysDuring years 20, 25 DaysDuring years 21, 26 DaysDuring years 22, 27 DaysDuring years 23, 28 DaysDuring years 24, 29 DaysDuring years 25 & thereafter, 30 DaysA maximum of 45 days may be carried from one year into the next.Pro-Rated for Part-Time based on % of 1.0 FTE.Military Leave:Pierce County has a proud history of supporting the armed forces and provides members of the armed forces with up to 21 days paid military leave per state fiscal year.Holidays:Some full-time employees are entitled to eleven paid holidays as follows:   New Year's Day - January 1Martin Luther King, Jr's birthday - Third Monday in JanuaryPresident's Day - Third Monday in FebruaryMemorial Day - Last Monday in MayJuneteenth - June 19Independence Day - July 4Labor Day - First Monday in SeptemberVeteran's Day - November 11Thanksgiving Day - Fourth Thursday in November & Friday afterChristmas Day - December 25Personal Holidays:Regular full-time and regular part-time employees, and employees occupying limited duration positions, shall also receive two additional paid personal holidays. Paid personal holidays shall only accrue for those employees on County payroll as of January 1 of each year or the first work day following January 1 and must be taken during the calendar year in which it was accrued.Furlough:Some Pierce County employees may be designated to receive 10 "furlough" days per year in lieu of holidays. Furlough days are available for use on January 1 and must be scheduled and taken within the calendar year. Employees who leave employment with Pierce County must reimburse the employer for used furlough days based upon the number of remaining holidays.Sick Leave:Sick leave accrues on a bi-weekly basis, at the rate of one day per month.Insurance Benefits:Employees and families are covered by medical (including vision), dental and basic life insurance.  There are multiple medical plans with very affordable monthly premiums that offer coverage throughout Pierce County.  Employees are eligible to enroll each year in a flexible spending plan, which enables them to use tax-deferred dollars toward their health care and dependent care expenses.  Employees also have the opportunity to participate in supplemental life and long term disability insurance plans.   To view premium rates, summary of benefit coverage, and other information, please visit the Pierce County Health Benefits website.Retirement and Deferred Compensation:Pierce County employees are members of the State of Washington's Department of Retirement System (DRS) and depending on the position or previous DRS enrollment will be able to enroll in one of many programs DRS offers.  For additional information, check out the Department of Retirement Systems' web site.Employees also have the ability to participate in the Nationwide Deferred Compensation Plan.  This is a supplemental retirement savings program  that allows you control over the amount of pre-tax salary dollars you defer as well as the flexibility to choose between multiple investment options.Social Security:All Pierce County employees are covered by the federal Social Security and Medicare systems. The county and the employee pay an equal amount into the system.Miscellaneous Benefits:Please visit Pierce County's Benefits website for more information.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Please describe your highest level of education.
        
        
                Less than High School Diploma or GED
                High School Diploma or GED
                HS Diploma/GED + Some college or vocational school
                Associates Degree
                Bachelors Degree
                Masters Degree
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        How many years of general office/clerical experience do you have?
        
        
                None
                Some to less than 2 year
                2 year to less than 4 years
                4 years to less than 6 years
                6 years to less than 10 years
                More than 10 years
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        How many years of elections experience do you have?
        
        
                None
                Some to less than 2 years
                2 years to less than 4 years
                4 years to less than 6 years
                6 years to less than 10 years
                More than 10 years
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have in Graphic Design?
        
        
                None
                Less than 1 year
                1 year to less than 2 years
                2 years to less than 5 years
                5 or more years
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Please describe your experience producing printed materials (with circulation over 300,000 pieces) where an error could result in public scrutiny or possible reprinting and mailing of material. How do you ensure accuracy in your work? If you do not have Elections experience, type "N/A".
        
        
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Please list your experience maintaining websites. Describe your experience updating and maintaining social media accounts.
        
        
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Please check all systems you use regularly and are an intermediate to advance user
        
        
                Microsoft Word
                Microsoft Excel
                Microsoft Powerpoint
                InDesign
                Web CMS builders
                Illustrator
                Photoshop
                Lightroom
                VoteWA
                None of the above
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Are you an intermediate level (or higher) user of Adobe InDesign or related software? Attach two .pdf examples.
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        Did you attach your two .pdf examples?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        Are you certified as a Washington State Elections Administrator?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

11

    

    
        Tell us about your experience working in elections, graphic design, or outreach. If you have none, type "N/A".
        
        
        
    


    
        

12

    

    
        Please list a few of your public speaking events, to include a description of your audience, your topic, and platform used (i.e. PowerPoint, web meetings, Teams, etc).
        
        
        
    


    
        

13

    

    
        Employees in this position may be limited as to vacation time off during the primary and general election season, may be placed "on-call", and will be required to work a flexible schedule, which may include evenings, weekends, holidays, and overtime. Are you willing and able to work as within these parameters?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

14

    

    
        How did you hear about this opportunity?
        
        
                Pierce County Website
                governmentjobs.com
                Indeed
                LinkedIn
                Glassdoor
                Other Website
                Job Fair
                Pierce County Employee
                Other
        
    


    
        

15

    

    
        If you chose Other, Pierce County Employee, or Other Website, please provide details (name, site, etc).
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        