=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Election Review Specialist
Salary: $57,324.00 - $77,028.00 YEAR
Location: Thurston County – Olympia, WA, WA, 98504
Employer: State of Washington
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2023-03-08
Job Type: Full Time - Permanent
Job Number: 23 EL PS4 0633A
Department: Office of the Secretary of State
Division: Elections
Opening Date: 03/08/2023
Closing Date: 3/15/2023 7:52 AM Pacific

BENEFITS:
  • All employees of the Office of the Secretary of State are required to be fully vaccinated and show proof against COVID-19.  Your vaccine status will be verified by Human Resources (HR) prior to your first day of employment.  Please contact HR if you need information on a medical or religious accommodation at hr.sos.wa.gov.
  • This position is covered by a union shop provision
  • Certification as an Elections Administrator within two years of employment
  • This position is deemed essential to the critical infrastructure to support the business needs within the Elections division

Compensation
Salary commensurate with qualifications and experience. Full benefit package includes health, dental, life and long-term disability insurance; paid vacation, sick and military leave; deferred compensation plans; 12 paid holidays; and a public employees' retirement plan.
How to Apply:
To be considered for this position you must attach the following:
Letter of interest describing how your experience and qualifications relate to the duties and qualifications of the position
Current Resume
Three Professional references. Personal references will not be considered. 
You must complete the supplemental questions at the end of this application.  Incomplete responses such as "see resume" will not be considered.  In addition, if the employer you identify in the additional information section is not included on your resume or work experience profile and/or you do not identify an employer, you will not receive credit.
All veterans must include a copy of your DD214 to receive preference in the hiring process.  You must black out your social security number before attaching it to your application.
The Office of the Secretary of State is an equal opportunity employer (EOE). We do not discriminate on the basis of religion, age, gender, marital status, color, creed, national origin, political affiliation, military status, gender identity, sexual orientation, or any sensory, mental or physical ability. All interested candidates are encouraged to apply. Persons of disability needing assistance in the application process, or those needing the announcement in alternative format, should call (360) 480-4871.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

The Office of Secretary of State (OSOS) offers some of the most unique and diverse job opportunities in state government. Its critical responsibilities include ensuring a fair and accurate elections process; connecting Washingtonians through the power of libraries; protecting our important government records; and registering corporations and charities. The Secretary of State also administers vital community programs that inspire giving, document our history, and assist crime survivors in avoiding further abuse. This independent office under the state Constitution operates from facilities in the Olympia area and statewide.

The OSOS is looking for top-performing employees who embody its core values of integrity, service excellence, visionary leadership, collaboration, and teamwork. It is committed to both employee growth and work-life balance. The benefits of working in state government also include potential eligibility for the federal Public Service Loan Forgiveness program.
 
The Elections Divisionplays a critical role in ensuring Washington's democratic process is fair, accurate, accessible, and secure. Serve the voters of Washington and join our talented and purpose-driven team.



The certification and training program oversees, directs, and advises County Auditors in interpretations of federal and state election law and the correct administration of voter registration and elections throughout the state. The certification and training program reviews county practices for adherence to election law and best practices, provides essential tools for election administrators through official communications and training, and acts as liaisons for the Office of the Secretary of State. 


 Program Specialist 4 
Full Time, Permanent 
 
This Program Specialist 4 reports to the Certification and Training Program Manager and is responsible for overseeing the County Review Program which reviews the policies and procedures of Washington County Election Departments roughly every 5 years for compliance with state and federal election law.  This collaborative process is intended to support local election officials, share best practices and is one of the reasons Washington State Election Administration is ranked highest in the nation.

Serves as the lead program specialist in the county election review program; Travels extensively throughout state to conduct reviews of county elections departments
Tasks include: 

Determines county review schedules and tracks review histories. Additionally, monitors progress and completion of the year’s reviews.
Establishes and maintains internal and external documents used in election procedures reviews including managing the program’s document retention.
Evaluates efficiency and effectiveness of review process.
Visits counties multiple times to observe the election practices.
Reviews all written election materials prepared by the counties.
Reviews all written and observed procedures for compliance with state and federal election law.  
Makes recommendations to the county to conform to state and federal election law and conform to best practices; and prepares a publicly available review report on the findings of the review.

Provides support to Washington State counties on election processes and logic and accuracy test program
Tasks include:
Researches and accurately responds to county questions.
Advises and supports county auditors and county election administrators.
Conducts logic and accuracy tests at county election offices: reviews test patterns for acceptance within allowable standards; presides over test to ensure accuracy and test uploads for results; creates remediation plan for failures.

Participates in the elections training program, the election administration certification program and clearinghouse advisories program
Tasks include: 
Develops curriculum and presents at training opportunities for Secretary of State staff, county election administrators, and county canvassing board.
Assists in planning the Annual Election Conference – developing agenda, selection of speakers, vendor coordination, and logistical arrangements.
Conducts elections 101 orientation training.
Develops and publishes a variety of publications and forms for use by elections professionals such as county auditors, county election administrators, and the public.

Miscellaneous
Tasks include: 
Proofs and reviews documents, including certification of candidates and measures, ballot titles, explanatory statements, complete text for measures, statements for or against a measure, training manuals, election review reports.
Other duties as assigned.

Required Qualifications: 


Four years of experience providing support to staff or a program including, but not limited to interpreting policy and instructing others on application of policies, representing a program or office to clients, composing correspondence, scheduling appointments and meetings, working cooperatively with political party representatives, elected officials, election administrators, and the press and public in sensitive situations. 
Ability to efficiently use a personal computer and applicable software to successfully perform the essential functions of the position.
Current Washington State driver’s license or have requested and obtained an appropriate accommodation.

Preferred/Desired Qualifications:

Bachelor’s degree and two years of experience in interpreting policy and instructing others on application of policies, representing a program or office to clients, composing correspondence, scheduling appointments and meetings, working cooperatively with political party representatives, elected officials, election administrators, and the press and public in sensitive situations.
Certified Election Administrator in Washington State
Experience working in an elections office 
Experience preparing and delivering presentations to small and large groups
Excellent communication skills, both written and verbal
Demonstrated ability to effectively communicate with individuals and groups regarding complex or controversial public policy issues or service

Working Conditions:
Works primarily in an office environment but does require traveling in a vehicle for extended periods of time. Must be willing and able to sit for 4 or more hours a day and must be willing and able to move and maneuver objects weighing up to 30 pounds with or without reasonable accommodation. Extensive travel in and out of state, requiring overnight stays for up to one week at a time. May be required to travel on the weekends and may be required to travel in inclement weather. Standard core business hours of Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. but must be willing and able to work beyond normally scheduled business hours on short notice. Must have the ability to represent an elected official or politician in a competent, confident, and professional manner while maintaining the highest standards of honesty, integrity, confidentiality, and ethics.

Special Requirements/Conditions of Employment:


All employees of the Office of the Secretary of State are required to be fully vaccinated and show proof against COVID-19.  Your vaccine status will be verified by Human Resources (HR) prior to your first day of employment.  Please contact HR if you need information on a medical or religious accommodation at hr.sos.wa.gov.
This position is covered by a union shop provision
Certification as an Elections Administrator within two years of employment
This position is deemed essential to the critical infrastructure to support the business needs within the Elections division
Compensation
Salary commensurate with qualifications and experience. Full benefit package includes health, dental, life and long-term disability insurance; paid vacation, sick and military leave; deferred compensation plans; 12 paid holidays; and a public employees' retirement plan.

How to Apply:

To be considered for this position you must attach the following:
Letter of interest describing how your experience and qualifications relate to the duties and qualifications of the position
Current Resume
Three Professional references. Personal references will not be considered. 
You must complete the supplemental questions at the end of this application.  Incomplete responses such as "see resume" will not be considered.  In addition, if the employer you identify in the additional information section is not included on your resume or work experience profile and/or you do not identify an employer, you will not receive credit.
All veterans must include a copy of your DD214 to receive preference in the hiring process.  You must black out your social security number before attaching it to your application.

The Office of the Secretary of State is an equal opportunity employer (EOE). We do not discriminate on the basis of religion, age, gender, marital status, color, creed, national origin, political affiliation, military status, gender identity, sexual orientation, or any sensory, mental or physical ability. All interested candidates are encouraged to apply. Persons of disability needing assistance in the application process, or those needing the announcement in alternative format, should call (360) 480-4871.

More than Just a Paycheck!Employee benefits are not just about the kind of services you get, they are also about how much you may have to pay out of pocket. Washington State offers one of the most competitive benefits packages in the nation.We understand that your life revolves around more than just your career. Like everyone, your first priority is ensuring that you and your family will maintain health and financial security. That's why choice is a key component of our benefits package. We have a selection of health and retirement plans, paid leave, staff training and other compensation benefits that you can mix and match to meet your current and future needs.Read about our benefits:The following information describes typical benefits available for full-time employees who are expected to work more than six months. Actual benefits may vary by appointment type or be prorated for other than full-time work (e.g. part-time); view the job posting for benefits details for job types other than full-time.Note:  If the position offers benefits which differ from the following, the job posting should include the specific benefits. Insurance BenefitsEmployees and their families are covered by medical (including vision), dental and basic life insurance. There are multiple medical plans with affordable monthly premiums that offer coverage throughout the state.Staff are eligible to enroll each year in a medical flexible spending account which enables them to use tax-deferred dollars toward their health care expenses. Employees are also covered by basic life and long-term disability insurance, with the option to purchase additional coverage amounts.To view premium rates, coverage choice in your area and how to enroll, please visit the Public Employees Benefits Board (PEBB) website. The Washington Wellness program from the Health Care Authority works with PEBB to support our workplace wellness programs.Dependent care assistance allows the employee to save pre-tax dollars for a child or elder care expenses.Other insurance coverage for auto, boat, home, and renter insurance is available through payroll deduction.The Washington State Employee Assistance Program promotes the health and well-being of employees.Retirement and Deferred CompensationState Employees are members of the Washington Public Employees' Retirement System (PERS).  New employees have the option of two employer contributed retirement programs.  For additional information, check out the Department of Retirement Systems' web site.Employees also have the ability to participate in the Deferred Compensation Program (DCP).  This is a supplemental retirement savings program (similar to an IRA) that allows you control over the amount of pre-tax salary dollars you defer as well as the flexibility to choose between multiple investment options.Social SecurityAll state employees are covered by the federal Social Security and Medicare systems. The state and the employee pay an equal amount into the system.Public Service Loan ForgivenessIf you are employed by a government or not-for-profit organization, and meet the qualifying criteria, you may be eligible to receive student loan forgiveness under the Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program.Holidays Full-time and part-time employees are entitled to paid holidays and one paid personal holiday per calendar year.Note: Employees who are members of certain Unions may be entitled to additional personal leave day(s), please refer to position specific Collective Bargaining Agreements for more information.Full-time employees who work full monthly schedules qualify for holiday compensation if they are employed before the holiday and are in pay status for at least 80 nonovertime hours during the month of the holiday; or for the entire work shift preceding the holiday. Part-time employees who are in pay status during the month of the holiday qualify for the holiday on a pro-rata basis. Compensation for holidays (including personal holiday) will be proportionate to the number of hours in pay status in the month to that required for full-time employment, excluding all holiday hours. Pay status includes hours worked and time on paid leave.Sick Leave Full-time employees earn eight hours of sick leave per month. Overtime eligible employees who are in pay status for less than 80 hours per month, earn a monthly proportionate to the number of hours in pay status, in the month to that required for full-time employment. Overtime exempt employees who are in pay status for less than 80 hours per month do not earn a monthly accrual of sick leave. Sick leave accruals for part-time employees will be proportionate to the number of hours in pay status, in the month to that required for full-time employment. Pay status includes hours worked, time on paid leave and paid holiday.Vacation (Annual Leave)Full-time employees accrue vacation leave at the rates specified in WAC 357-31-165(1) or the applicable collective bargaining agreement (CBA). Full-time employees who are in pay status for less than 80 nonovertime hours in a month do not earn a monthly accrual of vacation leave.Part-time employees accrue vacation leave hours in accordance with WAC 357-31-165(1) or the applicable collective bargaining agreement (CBA) on a pro rata basis. Vacation leave accrual will be proportionate to the number of hours in pay status, in the month to that required for full-time employment.Pay status includes hours worked, time on paid leave and paid holiday.As provided in WAC 357-58-175, an employer may authorize a lump-sum accrual of vacation leave or accelerate the vacation leave accrual rate to support the recruitment and/or retention of a candidate or employee for a Washington Management Service position. Vacation leave accrual rates may only be accelerated using the rates established WAC 357-31-165.  Note: Most agencies follow the civil service rules covering leave and holidays for exempt employees even though there is no requirement for them to do so. However, agencies are required to adhere to the applicable RCWs pertaining holidays and leave.Military LeaveWashington State supports members of the armed forces with 21 days paid military leave per year.Bereavement Leave Most employees whose family member or household member dies, are entitled to three (3) days of paid bereavement leave. In addition, the employer may approve other available leave types for the purpose of bereavement leave.Additional LeaveLeave SharingParental LeaveFamily and Medical Leave Act (FMLA)Leave Without PayPlease visit the State HR Website for more detailed information regarding benefits.Updated 12-31-2022


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Where did you hear about this job opening?
        
        
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Do you have a family member or relative currently employed at the Office of the Secretary of State? *Relative includes parent, child, spouse, domestic partner, brother, sister, grandparent, aunt, uncle, cousin, niece, any 'step' relations within the preceding categories, any in-law relations within the preceding categories and any others living in the employee's household*
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        If you answered Yes in the previous question, what is the name of your family member/relative?
        
        
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        PLEASE READ THE BELOW AND TYPE YOUR INITIALS IN RESPONSE TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT YOU HAVE READ AND UNDERSTAND THESE STATEMENTS. • The Office of the Secretary of State has a Nepotism Policy that does not allow employment of relatives or family members in the same chain of command. I acknowledge this policy and  I do not have familial connections or household members employed at the Office of the Secretary of State. I understand that if I am hired and it is discovered that I have a relative or household member working in the same division, my employment will be terminated immediately.
        
        
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Did you attach a letter of interest and a resume?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Do you have four (or more) years of experience providing support to staff or a program including, but not limited to interpreting policy and instructing others on application of policies, representing a program or office to clients, composing correspondence, scheduling appointments and meetings, working cooperatively with political party representatives, elected officials, election administrators, and the press and public in sensitive situations?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Are you able to efficiently use a personal computer and applicable software to successfully perform the essential job functions of the position?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Do you have a current Washington State driver's license or have requested and obtained an appropriate accommodation?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have in an elections environment or elections-related field?
        
        
                2+ years of experience
                1-2 years of experience
                Less than 1 year of experience
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        Do you have knowledge of federal and Washington State election laws?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

11

    

    
        This position has a requirement to be physically in the office which is located in Olympia, Washington. Are you able meet this requirement? Please answer YES or NO.
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

12

    

    
        PLEASE READ THE BELOW AND TYPE YOUR INITIALS IN RESPONSE TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT YOU HAVE READ AND UNDERSTAND THESE STATEMENTS. • I will NOT attach or place my vaccination status within the application, resume, or cover letter. If I do, I understand that it will be rejected and I will be provided an opportunity to apply again without including my confidential health information. • I understand that my vaccination status is not needed until I am offered employment for the job for which I am applying. After a job offer is made, the Human Resources Office will contact me to review my vaccination status. Individuals unable to receive the COVID-19 vaccination due to medical condition(s) and/or sincerely held religious beliefs will have an opportunity to request an exemption and engage with Human Resources to explore what if any reasonable accommodations are available for the job you may be offered. • I will not share my vaccination status with hiring managers or interview panels.
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        