=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Special Project Manager for Elections
Salary: $119,712.94 - $151,743.28 YEAR
Location: WA 98057-2906, WA, WA, 98104
Employer: King County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2023-02-14
Job Type: Term Limited Temporary, Full Time, 40 hrs/wk
Job Number: 2023RL18115
Department: KCE - King County Elections
Division: Administration
Opening Date: 02/14/2023
Closing Date: 2/28/2023 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Exempt
Bargaining Unit: Z3 : KC Personnel Guidelines

BENEFITS:
  • Medical, dental, and vision coverage: King County pays 100% of the premiums for eligible employees and family members
  • Life and disability insurance: employees are provided basic coverage and given the opportunity to purchase additional insurance for both the employee and eligible dependents
  • Retirement: King County employees are eligible to participate in a pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems and a 457(b) deferred-compensation plan
  • Transportation program and ORCA transit pass
  • 12 paid holidays each year (plus 2 personal holidays)
  • Generous vacation and paid sick leave
  • Paid parental leave, family and medical leaves, and volunteer leave
  • Flexible Spending Account
  • Wellness programs
  • Onsite gyms and activity centers
  • Employee giving program
  • Employee assistance programs
  • Flexible schedules and telecommuting options, depending on position
  • Training and career development programs

For additional information about employee benefits please visit our
Benefits, Payroll, and Retirement Page
.
This is a general description of the benefits offered to eligible King County employees, and every effort has been made to ensure its accuracy.  If any information on this document conflicts with the provisions of a collective bargaining agreement (CBA), the CBA prevails.  Also, in the event of any incorrect information in this document, applicable laws, policies, rules, CBAs, or official plan documents will prevail.
NOTE:
Benefits for Term Limited Temporary (TLT) or Short Term Temporary (STT) positions, including leave eligibility and/or participation in the pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems, will vary based upon the terms and details of the position. Short Term Temporary positions are not eligible for an ORCA transit pass.
For inquiries about the specifics of this position, please contact the recruiter identified on this job posting.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

This is an amazing opportunity to be engaged in the election process!

This benefits-eligible Term-Limited Temporary (TLT) position is anticipated to last up to two years with the possibility of extending an additional year.  A Special Duty Assignment may be considered for King County Career Service employees who have passed their initial probationary period.  

King County’s Department of Elections is searching for an exceptional leader to serve as a Special Project Manager to help implement ranked choice voting (RCV). This position reports to the Deputy Director for the Department of Elections. The person who fills this role will oversee all elements of project management for implementing RCV from developing a detailed project plan and team infrastructure development to working with key stakeholders to develop and adopt policies and rules for conducting RCV elections. This project will have major impacts on the voting system for King County residents who reside in the city of Seattle. Implementation for RCV is scheduled for no later than the 2027 Primary Election.

The Special Project Manager in the Elections Department combines an exciting environment with the opportunity to develop and implement a RCV system for the largest county in Washington. The ideal candidate will thrive in an innovative, fast-paced environment and will not hesitate to roll up both sleeves, work hard, have fun, and get the job done.
 
King County Elections (KCE) manages voter registration and elections for more than 1.4 million voters in King County and is the largest vote-by-mail county in the United States. KCE's mission is to conduct accessible, secure, and accurate elections. As a leader in providing inclusive elections, KCE is focused on three key priorities – (1) continue to test and implement a customized approach to engaging voters and support citizens in exercising their democratic rights, (2) follow-up on audit recommendations, including pro-actively assessing and managing risk, and (3) define and build a respectful work environment based on professionalism and collaboration. KCE believes that democracy works best when all voices are heard, and proactively work to remove barriers to ensure all voters can meaningfully participate in our elections. Learn more at https://kingcounty.gov/depts/elections/about-us.aspx

Who May Apply:  This position is open to the general public and all King County employees.
 
Materials Required to Apply: Applicants must submit a (1) King County Application, (2) Resume, and (3) Letter of Interest. The letter of interest should describe how your education and experience meet the qualifications and have prepared you to perform the essential functions of the job. Applications without the required materials may not be considered for this position.
 
Work Location(s): This position is located at Renton Elections Building, 919 SW Grady Way, Renton, WA 98057.  
 
Work Schedule:  The standard workweek for this position is Monday through Friday, 40 hours per week.  We require the flexibility to work additional hours during peak periods of the election cycle. This position is exempt from the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act and is therefore not eligible for overtime.

Manage day-to-day project activities, issues, and risks; determine project team infrastructure and develop detailed project plan including budget estimate and detailed timeline.
Develop and maintain project risk mitigation plans, including identifying, quantifying, and planning for major project risks.
Establish measures of success, including acceptance criteria, financial metrics and performance indicators to track, manage and report on the project’s status.
Prepare and/or coordinate with appropriate staff Requests for Proposals, Requests for Information, and Requests for Bids; develop, negotiate and review contracts associated with assigned project; may manage vendor relationships.
Prepare and give presentations to senior management and the elected Director of Elections on project schedule progress, current status and responses to identified issues and risks.
Work with internal and external stakeholders such as the City of Seattle, Citizen Election Oversight Committee, Office of the Secretary of State (OSOS), and communities to develop and adopt policies and rules for conducting RCV elections.
Develop stakeholder roles, responsibilities, involvement, and explicit mechanisms to engage stakeholders. 
Meet with other jurisdictions that have implemented RCV for lessons learned and best practices.

Advanced knowledge and skill in managing multi-phase, highly visible and politically sensitive projects; skill in organizing, planning and executing multiple large-scale projects from vision through implementation; and preparing detailed and appropriate project documentation.
Skill in managing and prioritizing multiple shifting priorities; ability to work under deadlines while being flexible to changing needs.
Advanced skill in effective communication, including making formal presentations to groups and committees and influencing decision makers in a political environment.
Strong interpersonal skills and a commitment to equity and social justice.
Advanced knowledge and skill in successfully managing projects using current project management principles, methodologies and processes. Knowledge of strategic planning principles and practices.
Skill in problem-solving, conflict resolution, negotiating and decision making.
Skill in gathering, analyzing and synthesizing data; skill in effective paper and report writing; skill in effectively presenting statistical and narrative information to non-technical stakeholders or audiences.
Proficiency in Microsoft Office suite applications (Word, Outlook, Excel, Project, Teams, and SharePoint).
DESIRABLE QUALIFICATIONS

Knowledge of county or local government policies and practices. 
Experience managing complex change in operational organizations.
Project Management Professional (PMP) Certification.

Travel to work locations throughout King County with limited or no public transportation services is required. A valid Washington State Driver's License is required to operate King County vehicles.
 
Union Representation:  This position is not represented.
 
Classification:  Special Projects Manager III
 
Temporary Telecommuting Requirement 
The work associated with this position will be performed through a combination of teleworking complemented with onsite work and meetings as needed.  Employees must reside in Washington state and within a reasonable distance to their King County worksite to respond to workplace reporting requirements.
 
Employees will be provided with a County issued laptop and must maintain a workspace with an internet connection (access may be supplemented in some situations) where they can reliably perform work and remain available and responsive during scheduled work hours. Please note that when an employee conducts work that is likely to bring them in contact with another individual, safety precautions are required, including the wearing of masks in some situations. King County is doing its part to reduce the spread of COVID-19 and remains committed to reducing our carbon footprint.
   
King County has a robust collection of tools and resources to support working remotely. The individual selected for this opportunity will be joining an innovative and progressive team that is redefining how we work as we transition to the department's hybrid environment.  
   
Forbes recently named King County as one of Washington State's best employers.
        
Together, with leadership and our employees, we're changing the way government delivers service and winning national recognition as a model of excellence. Are you ready to make a difference? Come join the team dedicated to serving one of the nation's best places to live, work and play.
   
Guided by our "True North", we are making King County a welcoming community where every person can thrive. We value diversity, inclusion and belonging in our workplace and workforce. To reach this goal we are committed to workforce equity. Equitable recruiting, support, and retention is how we will obtain the highest quality workforce in our region; a workforce that shares and will help advance our guiding principles--we are one team; we solve problems; we focus on the customer; we drive for results; we are racially just; we respect all people; we lead the way; and we are responsible stewards. We encourage people of all backgrounds and identities to apply, including Native American and people of color, immigrants, refugees, women, LGBTQ+, people living with disabilities, and veterans.
 
King County is an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Employer
No person is unlawfully excluded from employment opportunities based on race, color, religion, national origin, sex (including gender identity, sexual orientation and pregnancy), age, genetic information, disability, veteran status, or other protected class. Our EEO policy applies to all employment actions, including but not limited to recruitment, hiring, selection for training, promotion, transfer, demotion, layoff, termination, rates of pay or other forms of compensation.
   
To Apply 
If you are interested in pursuing this position, please follow the application instructions carefully. If you need this announcement in an alternate language or format, would like to request accommodation or assistance in the application or assessment process or if you have questions please contact your recruiter listed on this job announcement.
 
  For more information regarding this recruitment, please contact: 
  Reeshema Lewis
  Sr. HR Business Partner
  Email:  Reeshema.Lewis@kingcounty.gov 