=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Administrative Specialist II (Elections Specialist - Vietnamese)
Salary: $25.60 - $32.58 HOUR
Location: WA 98057-2906, WA, WA, 98104
Employer: King County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2024-01-18
Job Type: Career Service, Full Time, 40 hrs/week
Job Number: 2024RL20928
Department: KCE - King County Elections
Division: Voter Services
Opening Date: 01/18/2024
Closing Date: 2/8/2024 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Non-Exempt
Bargaining Unit: F1A : L117-Admin
Full- or Part-Time: Full Time
Hours/Week: 40 hours/week

BENEFITS:
  • Medical, dental, and vision coverage: King County pays 100% of the premiums for eligible employees and family members
  • Life and disability insurance: employees are provided basic coverage and given the opportunity to purchase additional insurance for both the employee and eligible dependents
  • Retirement: King County employees are eligible to participate in a pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems and a 457(b) deferred-compensation plan
  • Transportation program and ORCA transit pass
  • 12 paid holidays each year plus two personal holidays
  • Generous vacation and paid sick leave
  • Paid parental, family and medical, and volunteer leaves
  • Flexible Spending Account
  • Wellness programs
  • Onsite activity centers
  • Employee Giving Program
  • Employee assistance programs
  • Flexible schedules and telecommuting options, depending on position
  • Training and career development programs

For additional information about employee benefits, visit our
Benefits, Payroll, and Retirement Page
.
This is a general description of the benefits offered to eligible King County employees, and every effort has been made to ensure its accuracy.  If any information on this document conflicts with the provisions of a collective bargaining agreement (CBA), the CBA prevails.
NOTE:
Benefits for Term Limited Temporary (TLT) or Short Term Temporary (STT) positions, including leave eligibility and/or participation in the pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems, will vary based upon the terms and details of the position. Short Term Temporary positions are not eligible for an ORCA transit pass.
For inquiries about the specifics of this position, please contact the recruiter identified on this job posting.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

This is an amazing opportunity to be engaged in the election process!
 
The Department of Elections - is searching for energetic and resourceful professionals who like to "get stuff done". The Administrative Specialist II positions in the Voter Services Department combine an exciting, fast-paced environment with the opportunity to cultivate talents and apply a variety of skills.  The ideal candidate will have a desire to help ensure the democratic process through public service.  They will thrive in an innovative environment and will not hesitate to roll up both sleeves, work hard, have fun, and get the job done.  This position will also provide backup support translating and/or proofing election-related documents and web materials from English to Vietnamese.  
 
Who We Are:  King County Elections (KCE) manages voter registrations and elections for more than 1.4 million voters in King County, one of the largest vote-by-mail counties in the United States. KCE's mission is to conduct accessible, secure, and accurate elections. As a leader in providing inclusive elections, KCE is focused on core values of accuracy, equity, integrity, service, teamwork, and transparency. The team at KCE is committed to ensuring all King County voters can get registered, cast their ballot, and make their voices heard. Learn more at www.kingcounty.gov/elections.aspx. 
 
Who May Apply: This position is open to all qualified applicants.  Applications will be screened for qualifications and completion of all the required materials and forms.  The most competitive applicants may be contacted for further steps in the selection process. 
 
Work Location(s):  This position will work at Renton Elections Building located at 919 SW Grady Way, Renton, WA 98057.  The position will also be frequently requested to work at additional off-site voting and registration centers throughout the county.
 
Work Schedule: This position is subject to the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) and is overtime eligible. The workweek is typically 40 hours per week, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday.  This position is expected to be able to work during sudden changes to schedule that may include early mornings, late nights, weekends, and holidays during designated election times.  Mandatory overtime (including weekends or evenings) will be required during elections and other peak work periods. 
 
Materials Required to Apply: A completed online King County employment application at www.kingcounty.gov/jobs and a Resume is required with your submission.

Provide excellent customer service to internal and external customers in person, via telephone, and via e-mail by processing voter registrations, communicating election program information and explaining election procedures, guidelines and regulations. 
Provide backup support for translation and/or interpreting and proof election-related documents and web materials from English to Vietnamese. This includes but is not limited to voter registration information, letters, and other correspondence (notice of elections, ballot titles, voters' pamphlet information, candidate statements, ballot measures, resolutions and related materials, etc.) to limited English speaking (LES) voters. 
Perform production-level computer work which includes accurate data entry, retrieving and editing records. 
Organize and coordinate work activities and assist with providing training and one-on-one instruction to diverse staff. 
Set up records and file documents in both electronic and paper formats. 
Review documents for proper format, accuracy, completion, eligibility, and other legal guidelines. 
Audit work group data entry activities to ensure performance quality and efficiency of work. 
Utilize spreadsheets, word documents and reports to track and document performance data. 
Research and resolve questions from staff, citizens and stakeholders. 
Document and improve work processes, procedures and instructions.

Demonstrated ability to enter a high a volume of data into a production application with speed and accuracy.  Strong attention to detail with the ability to perform the repetitive tasks required for data entry. 
High level of Vietnamese language skills including interpreting, reading, writing and speaking in both English and Vietnamese. (Candidates will be tested to determine translation skills and language proficiency.) 
Demonstrated comfort with the use of personal computers, email and electronic record filing systems to create correspondence and spreadsheets, send and receive information, access and analyze data, and develop reports and outreach materials.
Demonstrated ability to work collaboratively with others on the team and in and outside of the department.
Demonstrated ability to maintain the integrity and confidentiality of the position. 
Commitment to providing excellent customer service through effective verbal and written communication. This can be demonstrated through establishing and maintaining effective relationships and building rapport with a variety of people through active, attentive listening, and respect for differing backgrounds and points of view. 
Demonstrated ability to receive feedback with grace and introspection and incorporate it into making meaningful changes. 
Demonstrated ability to learn quickly when facing new situations and opportunities. 
Demonstrated ability to approach tasks with energy and a sense of urgency, take on new opportunities, and handle tough situations. 
Demonstrated ability to switch between tasks with little to no notice and be able to manage competing priorities.
Desired Qualifications:
  

Experience with Microsoft Office Suite – specifically Word and Excel. 
Initiative in taking on new tasks and projects. 
Familiarity with diverse communities and direct community based or customer service based experience is preferred.

Travel to work locations throughout King County with limited or no public transportation services is required. A valid Washington State Driver's License is required to operate King County vehicles.
 
PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS:  The duties in this position are performed in an office setting and may be required to lift at least 25 pounds.
 
UNION:  This position is represented by Teamsters Local 117, Professional & Technical and Administrative Employees.
 
Hybrid Work Environment
The work associated with this position will be performed through a combination of mandatory onsite work complemented with telecommuting work and meetings as needed. Employees must reside in Washington state and within a reasonable distance to their King County worksite to respond to workplace reporting requirements.
 
Employees will be provided with a County issued laptop and must maintain a workspace with an internet connection (access may be supplemented in some situations) where they can reliably perform work and remain available and responsive during scheduled work hours.
   
King County has a robust collection of tools and resources to support working remotely. The individual selected for this opportunity will be joining an innovative and progressive team that is redefining how we work as we transition to the department's hybrid environment.  
   
Forbes recently named King County as one of Washington State's best employers.
           
Together, with leadership and our employees, we're changing the way government delivers service and winning national recognition as a model of excellence.  Are you ready to make a difference? Come join the team dedicated to serving one of the nation's best places to live, work and play.
   
Guided by our "True North", we are making King County a welcoming community where every person can thrive.  We value diversity, inclusion and belonging in our workplace and workforce. To reach this goal we are committed to workforce equity. Equitable recruiting, support, and retention is how we will obtain the highest quality workforce in our region; a workforce that shares and will help advance our guiding principles--we are one team; we solve problems; we focus on the customer; we drive for results; we are racially just; we respect all people; we lead the way; and we are responsible stewards. We encourage people of all backgrounds and identities to apply, including Native American and people of color, immigrants, refugees, women, LGBTQ+, people living with disabilities, and veterans.
   
King County is an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Employer
No person is unlawfully excluded from employment opportunities based on race, color, religion, national origin, sex (including gender identity, sexual orientation and pregnancy), age, genetic information, disability, veteran status, or other protected class. Our EEO policy applies to all employment actions, including but not limited to recruitment, hiring, selection for training, promotion, transfer, demotion, layoff, termination, rates of pay or other forms of compensation.
 
To Apply 
If you are interested in pursuing this position, please follow the application instructions carefully. If you need this announcement in an alternate language or format, would like to request accommodation or assistance in the application or assessment process or if you have questions please contact your recruiter listed on this job announcement.
   
For more information regarding this recruitment, please contact: 
    Reeshema Lewis
    Sr. HR Business Partner
    Email:  Reeshema.Lewis@kingcounty.gov  