=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Voter Registration Coordinator - Elections Administration
Salary: $50,388.00 - $58,450.00 YEAR
Location: Denton, TX, TX, 76208
Employer: Denton County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2024-01-30
Job Type: Full-Time Non-Exempt
Job Number: 24-044
Department: Elections Administration
Opening Date: 01/31/2024
Closing Date: 2/8/2024 1:47 PM Central

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

The Voter Registration Coordinator performs administrative work to ensure that all activities in the Voter Registration Division of the Elections Administration Department are carried out properly.  This position is responsible for directing daily voter registration operations and plans, directing special projects, and delegating, coordinating, and assessing activities within deadlines.

Supervises activities of voting and voter registration; ensures staff work is in compliance with established policies and procedures.

Downloads and uploads reports from Secretary of State as necessary.

Acts as liaison and primary voter registration contact person for the Elections Administration office with computer software companies, voters, vendors, and representatives of other county's Voter Registration offices and other Denton County Departments.

Performs duties as database administrator for the Voter Registration Database.

Oversees the content and timely processing of all reports to the Secretary of State's Office regarding Voter Registration.

Prioritizes and delegates all voter registration tasks.

Maintains all voter registration files including hard copy and computerized files.

Sets and prioritizes performance goals for voter registration staff and monitors progress toward completion thereof.

Trains and supervises all persons utilizing the voter registration computer system.

Composes uniform policies regarding performance of voter registration tasks and uniform documentation of all voter registration processes.

Designs and supervises modifications and upgrades to the voter registration computer software.

Verifies and writes voting precinct descriptions.

Posts and reconciles postage for postage accounts.

Regular and punctual attendance is required.

Performs other related duties as required.

High School Diploma or GED and a minimum four years of experience in a related field; or equivalent combination of education and related experience required.

Bachelor's Degree preferred.

Denton County offers a full range of employee benefit programs for eligible employees, retirees, and their families. These programs include group health plans for medical and dental coverage; an Employee Assistance Program (EAP); life; disability, and long term care insurance; and flexible spending accounts for health care and dependent care reimbursements. The County also provides retirement benefits. Full time employees participate in the Texas County & District Retirement System (TCDRS), and employees may also participate in a retirement savings program (Deferred Compensation). In addition to these "basic employee benefits" and retirement services, employees benefit from a variety of other programs including 12 paid holidays, Tuition Reimbursement, a Wellness Program, and more.*Note: These benefits are not included for Community Supervision and Corrections Department (CSCD) employees, or any Denton County Part-Time employee.Denton County is an Equal Opportunity Employer and does not  discriminate against applicants or employees on the basis of race, color, religion, gender, mental or physical disability, age, national origin or veteran status.https://www.dol.gov/ofccp/regs/compliance/posters/pdf/eeopost.pdf (Download PDF reader)https://www.dol.gov/ofccp/regs/compliance/posters/pdf/eeosp.pdf (Download PDF reader)Family Medical Leave: Denton County employees who have been employed for one year and who have worked 1250 hours in the preceding year may be eligible for up to twelve weeks of FMLA leave.The FMLA provides for up to 12 weeks of job-protected leave	for the birth, adoption, or placement of a child for foster care	to care for a child, spouse, or parent with a serious health condition	for an employee with a serious health conditionEmployees who will be away from work for one of these reasons should contact Human Resources for additional information. When possible, an employee should provide at least 30 days advance notice. In the case of an emergency, notification should be made as soon as possible.https://www.dol.gov/whd/regs/compliance/posters/fmlaen.pdf (Download PDF reader)https://www.dol.gov/whd/regs/compliance/posters/fmlasp.pdf (Download PDF reader)


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Failure to accept the acknowledgment statement below can result in your employment application being rejected for failure to meet the minimum qualifications as stated in the job posting.  Your application for this employment opportunity will not be reconsidered if you fail to abide by the statements below.

COMPLETED APPLICATION ACKNOWLEDGMENT: I hereby acknowledge that I must complete ALL sections of the employment application, to include the supplemental questions. I understand that failure to enter all relevant work experience in the work history section of the application will result in the rejection of my employment application.  I understand that to knowingly make or cause to be made any false statement, omission, or misrepresentation of a material fact in any application, and/or its supplemental questions, shall be grounds for termination.  I also understand that I must provide at least THREE references in the "REFERENCES" section of the application.

 Furthermore, I acknowledge that Denton County does NOT accept resumes in lieu of completed applications.

   Please enter your initials and today's date as acceptance of this acknowledgment. If you do not accept this acknowledgment, please understand that your application will be rejected. 
        
        
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Do you have a high school diploma or GED?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Please indicate the highest level of education obtained:
        
        
                No High School Diploma or GED
                General Equivalency Diploma
                High School Diploma
                Associate's Degree
                Bachelor's Degree
                Master's Degree
                Juris Doctorate
                PHD
                Medical Doctor
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        How many credit hours have you earned at an accredited college or university?

This should include hours earned from completion of a degree, hours earned towards a degree, and/or hours earned but not in conjunction with a degree.
        
        
                No College Credit - 14 Credit Hours
                15-29 Credit Hours
                30-44 Credit Hours
                45-59 Credit Hours
                60-89 Credit Hours
                90-119 Credit Hours
                120-149 Credit Hours
                150-179 Credit Hours
                180-209 Credit Hours
                210-239 Credit Hours
                240-269 Credit Hours
                270-299 Credit Hours
                300-329 Credit Hours
                330-359 Credit Hours
                360-389 Credit Hours
                390 Credit Hours or more
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        I acknowledge that I must provide the Denton County Human Resources Department with an OFFICIAL transcript confirming hours completed as indicated in the question above, should an employment opportunity be offered and accepted. 

Please enter your initials and today's date as acknowledgment. If you did not indicate completion of credit hours, please enter N/A.
        
        
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Please select the years of full-time experience you have working in local or state elections:

NOTE:  YOU MUST COMPLETE THE WORK HISTORY SECTION OF THE EMPLOYMENT APPLICATION TO INCLUDE THE VERIFIABLE FULL-TIME EQUIVALENT YEARS OF EXPERIENCE AS INDICATED OR BE DISQUALIFIED.
        
        
                Less Than 6 Months
                At least 6 Months, but less than 1 Year
                1 Year
                At least 1 Year 6 months, but less than 2 years
                2 Years
                3 Years
                4 Years
                5 Years
                6 Years
                7 Years
                8 Years
                9 Years
                10 Years
                11 Years
                12 Years
                13 Years
                14 Years
                15 Years
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Where did you hear about this position?
        
        
                Denton Record Chronicle
                Governmentjobs.com
                Monster.com
                Indeed
                Craigslist
                Facebook
                Other
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        If you selected "Other" in the previous question, please specify how you were referred to this position.
        
        
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        Should you be selected for an interview, you will receive a phone call or email with all the necessary information for scheduling and attending your interview. Please see the acknowledgment below.

Failure to accept the acknowledgment statement below can delay the processing of your application. By acknowledging the statement you understand you are responsible for checking your phone messages and email address (provided during online application registration) for information pertaining to potential interviews for this job posting. To ensure proper delivery of emails please add  jobs@dentoncounty.com to your email safe list.


 INTERVIEW ACKNOWLEDGMENT:  I hereby acknowledge that all interviews for this vacancy, will be communicated via phone or email. 

Please enter your initials and today's date as acceptance of this acknowledgment. If you do not accept this acknowledgment, please enter N/A.
        
        
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        I understand that no employment contract either expressed or implied is created should I be hired by Denton County.  I understand that I will be required to pass a drug/alcohol and/or physical examination prior to employment.  I also understand that if I am a new employee, I will be required to complete a six (6) month probationary period.  I give my consent to Denton County to conduct a background investigation including contacting any current and/or previous institutional employers, reference checks, criminal searches, and verification of credentials.

  Please enter your initials and today's date as acceptance of this acknowledgment. If you do not accept this acknowledgment, please understand that your application will be rejected. 
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        