=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Campaign Finance Specialist-WV Secretary of State&#39;s Office-Kanawha Co.
Salary: $75,000.00 - $75,000.00 YEAR
Location: Kanawha County, WV, WV, 25305
Employer: West Virginia
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2025-09-07
Job Type: Full-Time Permanent
Job Number: CFS-SOS
Department: - Not in the Classified Service, See Posting
Opening Date: 09/08/2025
Closing Date: 9/19/2025 11:59 PM Eastern
LOCATION OF VACANCY: KANAWHA

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===




***This job opportunity is not in the classified service and is not covered by the West Virginia Division of Personnel merit system. 
If you are interested in this position, you must apply directly to the hiring agency.*** 


TO APPLY: Email resume to WVSOS at hiring@wvsos.com 




WEST VIRGINIA SECRETARY OF STATE
CAMPAIGN FINANCE SPECIALIST 
 CHARLESTON, WEST VIRGINIA (KANAWHA COUNTY)
SALARY: $45,000

Division: Elections Division

Reports To: Elections Director

Position Summary:
The Campaign Finance Specialist focuses on managing general campaign finance system tasks, assisting candidates and the public with campaign finance inquiries, ensuring compliance with applicable laws including tracking and managing enforcement efforts for civil penalties and settlements, and advising public officials across various levels of government.

This role also includes cross-training expectations for other aspects of the Elections Division including voter registration, list maintenance, election official training and materials, drafting and editing of guides, manuals, and procedures, and other duties as assigned.

This role generally requires keen attention to detail, knowledge of or capacity to work in the Campaign Finance Reporting System and other computer-based programs, competency using Microsoft products including Sharepoint, Word, Excel, and PowerPoint. The standard work schedule for this position is Monday through Friday, 8:30 AM to 5:00 PM, and there must be a commitment to working as necessary during busy times such as Election Day, Saturdays of Early Voting Periods, campaign finance reporting periods, and at training conferences.

All work assignments and workflow are at the discretion of the Elections Director and may include tasks or projects that are not expressly provided herein.

Key Responsibilities:
• Manage and maintain the campaign finance system, ensuring accurate and timely processing of filings and reports.
• Track filing compliance and manage outreach to candidates and committees with overdue or missing campaign finance reports.
• Assist candidates, political committees, and the public with questions related to campaign finance laws, regulations, and filing requirements.
• Provide guidance and technical assistance to ensure all campaign activities comply with federal, state, and local election laws.
• Review and interpret campaign finance documents and reports for compliance.
• Collaborate with and advise public officials at the state, county, and municipal levels regarding campaign finance regulations and procedures.
• Enforce campaign finance laws through the investigation of violations, and the administration of civil penalties and settlements.
• Prepare and deliver training sessions and outreach efforts to educate stakeholders about campaign finance laws and best practices.
• Support the development of policies and procedures related to campaign finance enforcement and compliance.

Minimum Qualifications

U.S. citizen or national.
Ability to pass a background investigation.

Education and Experience

Bachelor’s or associate degree from an accredited college in accounting, auditing, business or public administration, computer science, economics, finance, political science, statistics, or a related field.
Substitution: Equivalent full-time experience in state or local government may be accepted in place of a degree.

Experience and Skills

Demonstrated experience in a professional setting.
Preference for experience with election laws and procedures, campaign finance, or related areas.
Strong written and verbal communication skills.
Strong analytical and organizational skills.
Self-starter with a high level of motivation.
Ability to work under pressure and meet deadlines.
Experience with systems and techniques for efficiently processing and analyzing large datasets.
Ability to interpret legal documents and communicate complex information clearly.
Detail-oriented with the ability to handle confidential information appropriately.
Ability to develop and deliver trainings and presentations for state and county election staff and the public.

This job opportunity is not in the classified service and is not covered by the West Virginia Division of Personnel merit system. Therefore, interested persons must apply directly to the hiring agency as directed above. 

The West Virginia Secretary of State's Office is an Equal Opportunity Employer.

WV Secretary of State website
