=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Deputy County Administrator / Auditor-Treasurer
Salary: $118,082.00 - $177,133.00 YEAR
Location: 500 Fir Avenue West Fergus Falls, MN, MN, 56537
Employer: Otter Tail County
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2025-09-07
Job Type: Full-Time
Job Number: 117:09/25
Department: Administration
Opening Date: 09/08/2025
Closing Date: 9/30/2025 4:30 PM Central

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Otter Tail County is seeking a full-time Deputy County Administrator / Auditor-Treasurer.

This position will be part of the County Leadership Team overseeing the Finance, Property, and License Management Team and Countywide initiatives such as the Long-Range Strategic Plan.  This position is responsible for overseeing and administering the duties and functions of an Auditor-Treasurer including financial operations and policy development, property recordings, assessor, elections, property tax administration, state audits, tax increment financing, property forfeitures, and ensuring compliance with state and federal regulations.  This position would fulfill the appointed duties of an Auditor-Treasurer.

Under the direction of the County Administrator, the Deputy County Administrator assists in managing and administering the affairs of the county and carrying out the policies of the County Board.   This position is responsible to provide oversight in the planning, development, management, coordination, delivery, and evaluation of multiple complex functions of one of four service teams in the county organization.  Lead interdepartmental and interagency work teams to improve county service alignment and performance.  Priorities include service alignment, leadership and accountability to county-wide board goals.  The Deputy County Administrator acts on behalf of the County Administrator in that person's absence.

The deadline to apply is September 30, 2025,

Provides executive leadership, oversight and direction to departments in assigned service teams and integrate various functional areas.  Direct the operations, planning, and implementation of programs; monitor and evaluate the program performance and recommend/implement needed improvements.
Help shape county-wide strategic planning, priorities and budget as set forth through short-term and long-term goals with consideration for the County’s Long-Range Strategic Plan.
Assist in the development of budget documents that align the work of departments within service teams toward accomplishment of County Board goals and federal and state mandates.  Lead preparation of budget for service team; oversee operating and capital expenditures.
Provide leadership and strategic direction and represent the County concerning intergovernmental relationships and initiatives at local, state, regional and federal levels.
Develop and maintain relationships with strategic partners and other organizations.
Ensure strategic coordination between the service team and the County Administrator’s Office and County Board.  Advises department heads regarding administrative policies and procedures. Ensures compliance with County Board directives and actions.
Represents the Department and acts on behalf or in the absence of the County Administrator in meetings with the County Board, local, state, and federal officials, other governmental units, community agencies, and the public as assigned.
Lead inter-departmental and inter-agency work teams to improve county service and integration and performance.
Analyzes complex issues, prepares and manages reports, and develops recommendations for decisions affecting the current and future operations of the County, including financial, budgeting, and capital improvement; evaluates department, program and project performance and recommends/takes corrective action where necessary.
Participates in the selection of key positions throughout the organization.
Recommends policy and provides leadership to the County in the areas of community and economic development, external relations, public information and communications.
Assist in the coordination of countywide leadership meetings, including but not limited to, the senior management team, countywide leadership team, and supervisory leadership.
Assist with duties and responsibilities as outlined in the County Emergency Operations Plan and Continuity of Operations Plan.
Performs other duties as assigned.
Otter Tail County leaders exhibit the core values of integrity, respect, positivity, growth, and innovation.

Bachelor’s Degree in accounting, finance or related field is desired; experience in Minnesota property tax administration and calculation and elections is highly preferred; a Bachelor's Degree in public administration, business administration, planning, or related field or equivalent knowledge, skills and abilities will be considered.
5 years demonstrated management experience
5 years demonstrated leadership experience
Driver’s License valid in the State of Minnesota

This position is regularly scheduled to work 40 hours per week, Monday-Friday, 8:00-4:30 p.m.  The 2025 starting salary for this position is $118,082 annually depending on qualifications, with career advancement to $177,133.

The selection process will include an online employment application and supplemental questionnaire.  Semi-finalists will be invited to interview.  Prior to hire, finalists will be required to pass a background investigation.  A standard twelve-month probationary period applies.

How to Apply
To apply for this position, click on desired job title, then the "Apply" link.  On-line applications are stored on a secure site.  Only you and authorized employees of Otter Tail County have access to the information submitted.

When filling out any employment application materials for Otter Tail County, you must include your entire employment and education history.  Failure to do so may render your application incomplete.

Veterans Preference
Eligible veterans as defined by Minnesota Statute 197.447 may claim Veterans Preference during the hiring process.  A DD214 and required supporting documentation must be included with the employment application to receive preference.

Background Investigation
All employment offers are contingent upon the applicant passing a background investigation which may include, but are not limited to, gathering information from the following sources: Bureau of Criminal Apprehension, other law enforcement agencies, court documents, educational institutions, previous employers, Minnesota Driver and Vehicle Services, military records, Immigration and Naturalization Services, and known associates of the applicant.

Criminal convictions are not an automatic bar to employment.  Each case is considered on its individual merits and the type of work sought.  Making false statements or withholding information during the  hiring process will cause you to be barred from employment or removed from employment.

Otter Tail County is a tobacco-free workplace.


Otter Tail County does not discriminate on the basis of political affiliation, race, color, creed, religion, age, national origin, sex (pregnancy, gender identity, sexual orientation), marital status, familial status, status with regard to public assistance, membership or activity in a local commission, disability, or genetic information.
 
Equal Opportunity Employer

Otter Tail County provides an attractive benefit package for regular full-time employees, including health, dental, life, long-term disability, and retirement benefits through the Public Employees Retirement Association (PERA).  Regular full-time employees can expect to accrue holiday, sick, and vacation leave benefits.  In addition, employees receive professional development opportunities.  


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        The following questionnaire will be used as a scored evaluation of your knowledge, skills, and experience and is used to determine advancement in the hiring process. Be sure that your responses are thorough and complete.  If a question asks for education and experience that you have already stated in the employment application, it is still important to answer the question thoroughly on the questionnaire.  All responses should be examples of your own writing and will be evaluated for potential AI.  If we determine that the responses were created using AI, your application may be deemed ineligible.
        
        
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        The Deputy County Administrator is responsible for assisting in managing and administering the goals and objectives of Finance, Property, and License Management Service Team. This position oversees functions and departments including auditor-treasurer, finance, elections, recorder, assessor, and drivers and motor vehicle licenses. How will you establish goals, objectives, and performance measures within each department and with each manager of the team you are leading?
        
        
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Describe how you lead through change and build support for ideas/goals with colleagues and board members.
        
        
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Describe your experience with preparing, monitoring, and analyzing budgets. Include the size of the budget and the functional areas that were included.
        
        
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Describe your experience with long-term and short-term strategic planning to improve service, integration, and performance.
        
        
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Describe your experience in property tax administration, including any experience in Minnesota. If you do not have experience with property tax administration, describe how you would ensure that taxes are calculated accurately, and timelines are met?
        
        
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Are you bilingual?  If you are bilingual, indicate the language(s) you speak and your skill level. Also tell us whether you can speak fluently, read/or write the language(s).
        
        
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Have you included your entire work history on this employment application?  Do not mark your application "see resume".  Not including your entire work history will render your application incomplete.
        
        
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        How did you hear about this job opportunity?  Check all that apply.
        
        
                Otter Tail County Website
                Minnesota Works Website
                Newspaper
                Social Media
                Word of Mouth
                Other
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        