=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections GIS Analyst
Salary: $74,877.40 - $119,610.14 YEAR
Location: 80120, CO, CO, 80120
Employer: Arapahoe County
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2025-03-05
Job Type: Full-time
Job Number: 06106
Department: Clerk and Recorder's Office
Division: Elections
Opening Date: 03/06/2025
Closing Date: 3/21/2025 11:59 PM Mountain

BENEFITS:
  • Medical, Dental, and Vision Insurance
  • Life and Supplemental Life Insurance
  • Short and Long Term Disability
  • Mandatory Pension Plan
  • Deferred Compensation Plan
  • Pre-paid Legal Services
  • Vacation and Sick Leaves
  • Holiday pay
  • Training and Educational Reimbursement Opportunities

For a more detailed listing of our benefit programs, click on the MENU link on the left and then Benefits Summary.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

The Election GIS Analyst performs highly technical professional level work carrying out a comprehensive public facing service operation. This position specifically supports the Community Services team in performing computer applications and/or database design, development, service implementation for Division users utilizing Geographic Information System (GIS) technology, ArcGIS and overall maintenance of the entire SCORE address library.

Manages the daily operation of maintaining the boundaries of Arapahoe County’s 400+ special districts, school districts, and municipalities.
Maintain the geographic database and perform updates and edits. Prepare maps and data records as necessary for quality assurance procedures or in response to internal and external customer service data and mapping requests
Creates and maintains GIS data, manages GIS projects and provides GIS applications and maps for Clerk and Recorder and other County departments.
Collaborates in developing processes to better manage the maintenance and updating of GIS and database data.
Uses Access and Structured Query Language (SQL) to extract data from a variety of sources for ad hoc reports to support C&R and other County projects and data integrity checks.
Develop, write, and use computer programs to access, update, and prepare reports and forms. Install, customize, and support GIS Database applications.
Ensures statutory compliance of voter service functions including voter registration, SCORE address library maintenance, and all services relevant to the voter mapping/location operation.
Conducts long-range planning studies on mapping and address library issues and recommends projects, programs, and procedures to achieve operational objectives.
Technical expert of County Election software (SCORE), County mapping software (ARAPAmap), County Data visualization software (Power BI), statutes, rules and regulations pertaining to updating existing County boundaries.
Political map subject matter expert, preparing and maintaining precinct and district maps for use by County, political parties, districts and candidates.
Serves as the project manager for decennial re-districting (additional re-precinting projects when necessary), including staffing advisory commissions for redrawing of the Board of County Commissioner district lines and coordinating with cities and school districts in the county who adjust their candidate district lines.
Develops and manages election data reporting and analytics tools that support elections operations internally and provide information to voters and interested parties through Divisions public website.
Supports Division with maps and visualization of past election data (such as turnout) together with analysis of proposals for future services such as vote centers and ballot drop boxes.
Works with County and State partners to prepare voter lists and other data reports for custom orders and for posting on website for public use at regular intervals.

Skills, Abilities and Competencies:
Organized - Can marshal resources (people, funding, material, and support) to get things done
Service First - Improve customer experience; enhance quality of life; improve trust in government
Teamwork - Cooperates with others to achieve goals and overall work objectives
Adaptability - Responds to changing circumstances by being innovative and altering behavior
Communication - Expresses clearly and effectively when speaking/writing to individuals or groups
Technical Skills - database management principals, data types, database analysis and design techniques, GIS and GIS applications, PC and network operations, creating and maintaining database applications using SQL, queries, forms, reports, macros and programming with VB for Applications.
Behavioral Competencies (these are required for all positions at ACG):
Accountability
Accessibility
Inclusivity
Integrity

Education and Experience:

A bachelor’s degree in Geographic Information Systems or related field
5+ years of GIS experience, to include computer programming and systems analysis, design, integration, and implementation
Any equivalent combination of education and work experience that satisfy the requirements of the job will be considered.

Preferred Education and Experience:
Any continued education and/or relevant certifications.
Bilingual and/or American Sign Language
7+ years of experience working within information system environments

Pre-Employment Additional Requirements:

Must successfully pass pre-employment testing which includes an acceptable motor vehicle record (MVR) and background check.
Security clearance required: will require fingerprinting and a Colorado Bureau of Investigation (CBI) background check

Post-Employment Requirements:
Must be able to work nights and weekends based on business need
Work locations and facilities are subject to change based on business need
WORK ENVIRONMENT:
Work is generally confined to a standard office environment.
Hybrid work opportunities available per approval.

PHYSICAL DEMANDS:
Spends 70% of the time sitting and 30% of the time either standing or walking.
Occasionally lifts, carries, pulls or pushes up to 20 lbs.
Occasionally uses cart, dolly, or other equipment to carry in excess of 20 lbs.
Occasionally climbs, stoops, kneels, balances, reaches, crawls and crouches while performing office or work duties.
Verbal and auditory capacity enabling constant interpersonal communication through automated devices, such as telephones, radios, and similar; and in public meetings and personal interactions.
Constant use of eye, hand and finger coordination enabling the use of automated office machinery or equipment.
Visual capacity enabling constant use of computer or other work-related equipment.

Definitions:
Occasionally: Activity exists less than 1/3 of the time.
Frequently: Activity exists between 1/3 and 2/3 of the time.
Constantly: Activity exists more than 2/3 of the time.

 

* Arapahoe County does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, disability, genetic information, sexual orientation or any other status protected under the law. It is our intention that all qualified applicants be given equal opportunity in any term, condition, or privilege of employment and that selection decisions are based on job-related factors. Arapahoe County is committed to making employment accessible to persons with disabilities.

** In accordance with Senate Bill 23-058, applicants understand that Arapahoe County will not request or require the applicant to include their age, date of birth, or date of attendance/graduation date on the initial application. Applicants understand that Arapahoe County can request or require an individual to provide documentation including copies of certification, transcripts, and other materials created by a third party. The applicant understands that the applicant can redact, if they so choose, information that identifies age, date of birth, or dates of attendance/graduation from an educational institution on those requested/required certification, transcripts and other materials created by a third party. 

Toll Free Applicant Technical Support:  If you experience technical difficulty with the NEOGOV system (i.e. uploading or attaching documents to your online application), call NEOGOV technical support at 855-524-5627.  Helpful hints: if you are having difficulty uploading or attaching documents to your application, first, ensure your documents are PDF or Microsoft Word files, and second, close the document before you attempt uploading (attaching) it. 

As a Regular Full-Time employee at Arapahoe County Government, you are eligible for benefits such as:	Medical, Dental, and Vision Insurance	Life and Supplemental Life Insurance	Short and Long Term Disability	Mandatory Pension Plan	Deferred Compensation Plan	Pre-paid Legal Services	Vacation and Sick Leaves	Holiday pay	Training and Educational Reimbursement OpportunitiesFor a more detailed listing of our benefit programs, click on the MENU link on the left and then Benefits Summary.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Please choose the response that best describes your educational background.
        
        
                High School Diploma or GED
                Some College
                Associate Degree
                Bachelor's Degree
                Master's Degree
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Please choose the best answer that describes your GIS experience, to include computer programming and systems analysis, design, integration, and implementation.
        
        
                Less than 3 years of experience
                3 years to less than 4 years of experience
                4 years to less than 5 years of experience
                5 years to less than 6 years of experience
                6 years to less than 7 years of experience
                7 years to less than 8 years experience
                8 years to less than 9 years of experience
                More than 9 years of experience
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Specifically, please describe your mapping-related experience.
        
        
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Do you have any Election-related experience?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        If you answered yes to the prior question, please describe.
        
        
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Do you have any continued education and/or relevant certifications?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        If you answered yes to the prior question, please list them below.
        
        
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Are you bilingual and/or fluent in American Sign Language (ASL)?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        In detail, please describe your experience with data analysis or visualization using programs such as Microsoft BI, Tableau, etc.
        
        
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        Tell us about your experience working with cross functional teams. Specifically, please describe your approach to teamwork, collaboration and cross training to learn other roles.
        
        
        
    


    
        

11

    

    
        Describe a time when you worked with a team from a different department/division to achieve a common goal. Specifically, how do you build trust and maintain strong working relationships with colleagues from other functions?
        
        
        
    


    
        

12

    

    
        Describe your data entry experience. Specifically, what are your strengths and weaknesses with data entry?
        
        
        
    


    
        

13

    

    
        Do you have a current, valid driver's license?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

14

    

    
        Have you received eight or more points within the past twelve months or twelve or more points within the past twenty-four months against your driving record?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

15

    

    
        How many moving traffic violations have you been cited for in the past two years?
        
        
                Less than 3 violations
                3 or 4 violations
                5 or more violations
        
    


    
        

16

    

    
        In the past three years, have you had your driver's license revoked or suspended?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        