=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Accounting &amp; Payroll Specialist (Fiscal Specialist III)
Salary: $32.44 - $41.25 HOUR
Location: WA 98057-2906, WA, WA, 98104
Employer: King County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2025-11-10
Job Type: zzDNU_Career Service, Full Time, 40 hrs/week
Job Number: 2025RL25837
Department: KCE - King County Elections
Division: Administration
Opening Date: 11/10/2025
Closing Date: 12/1/2025 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Non-Exempt
Bargaining Unit: F1A : L117-Admin
Full- or Part-Time: Full Time
Hours/Week: 40 hours/week

BENEFITS:
  • Excellent medical, dental, and vision coverage options: King County provides eligible employees with options, so they can decide what’s best for themselves and their eligible dependents
  • Life and disability insurance: employees are provided basic coverage and given the opportunity to purchase additional insurance for both the employee and eligible dependents
  • Retirement: eligible King County employees may participate in a pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems and a 457(b) deferred-compensation plan
  • Transportation program and ORCA transit pass
  • 12 paid holidays each year plus two personal holidays
  • Generous vacation and paid sick leave
  • Paid parental, family and medical, and volunteer leaves
  • Flexible Spending Account
  • Wellness programs
  • Onsite activity centers
  • Employee Giving Program
  • Employee assistance programs
  • Flexible schedules and telecommuting options, depending on position
  • Training and career development programs

For additional information about employee benefits, visit our
Benefits, Payroll, and Retirement Page
.
This is a general description of the benefits offered to eligible King County employees, and every effort has been made to ensure its accuracy.  If any information on this document conflicts with the provisions of a collective bargaining agreement (CBA), the CBA prevails.
NOTE:
Benefits for Term Limited Temporary (TLT) or Short Term Temporary (STT) positions, including leave eligibility and/or participation in the pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems, will vary based upon the terms and details of the position. Short Term Temporary positions are not eligible for an ORCA transit pass.
For inquiries about the specifics of this position, please contact the recruiter identified on this job posting.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===




This is an amazing opportunity to be engaged in the election process!

The Department of Elections is searching for energetic and resourceful professionals who like to "get stuff done". The Accounting & Payroll Specialist position in the Elections Department combines an exciting, fast paced environment with the opportunity to cultivate talents and apply a variety of skills. The ideal candidate will thrive in an innovative and fast-paced environment and will not hesitate to roll up both sleeves, work hard, have fun, and get the job done.   
  
We are seeking a detail-oriented and collaborative professional to support payroll, finance, and human resources operations. The Accounting & Payroll Specialist supports the department's mission by processing payroll and vendor payments, maintaining accurate financial and employee records, supporting audits and reporting, and contributing to continuous improvement initiatives.

Work is performed under limited supervision and requires independent judgment. This position reports directly to the Administrative Services Manager and works closely with both the Finance Administrator I and the Human Resource Analyst. The ideal candidate thrives in a fast-paced environment, values accuracy and confidentiality, and enjoys delivering exceptional customer service to employees and partners throughout the organization.

Who We Are: King County Elections (KCE) manages voter registration and elections for more than 1.4 million voters in King County, one of the largest vote-by-mail counties in the United States. KCE's mission is to conduct accessible, secure, and accurate elections. As a leader in providing inclusive elections, KCE is focused on core values of accuracy, equity, integrity, service, teamwork, and transparency. The team at KCE is committed to ensuring all King County voters can get registered, cast their ballot, and make their voices heard. Learn more at www.kingcounty.gov/elections.aspx

Who May Apply: This position is open to the general public and all King County employees.   
   
Materials Required to Apply: Applicants must submit a King County Application and Letter of Interest. The Letter of Interest should describe how your education and experience meet the qualifications and have prepared you to perform the essential functions of the job. Applications without the required materials may not be considered for this position.
    
Work Location(s): The work associated with this position will be performed primarily in person at elections headquarters with some telecommuting work as needed. The work site for this position is the Elections Building, 919 SW Grady Way in Renton.

Work Schedule: This position is subject to the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) and is overtime eligible. The workweek is typically 40 hours per week, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday.  This position is expected to be able to work during sudden changes to schedule that may include early mornings, late nights, weekends, and holidays during designated election times. Mandatory overtime (including weekends or evenings) will be required during elections and other peak work periods.

Payroll & Employee Services

Process payroll and maintain accurate employee records for both permanent and temporary staff, ensuring compliance with labor contracts and state and federal regulations.
Manage employee reimbursements, including travel, mileage, and parking expenses.
Support and present at new employee orientations, ensuring onboarding paperwork is complete and accurate.
Coordinate the employee service awards program by tracking milestones, ordering recognition items, and maintaining program records.
Provide training and guidance to employees and managers on payroll and finance procedures.

Accounts Payable & Financial Operations

Process vendor invoices, purchase orders, and payments, ensuring proper approvals, coding, and timeliness.
Monitor shared team mailboxes and respond to inquiries promptly and professionally.
Manage van rental requests and reservations for election operations.
Support internal and external audits and assist with year-end financial and HR processes.

Reporting & Collaboration

Prepare and distribute payroll, finance, and compliance reports.
Provide data and documentation to support audits, reviews, and compliance requirements.
Partner with department staff to enhance data accuracy, streamline workflows, and improve service delivery.

Records Management & Systems Projects

Oversee finance and payroll records management, ensuring compliance with retention schedules and public records laws.
Support the Laserfiche digitization project by organizing and migrating department records.

Continuous Improvement & Department Support

Maintain accurate data in finance and HR systems.
Contribute to Lean and continuous improvement initiatives to enhance efficiency and customer service.
Provide backup support for other finance and HR functions as needed.

Minimum of two years of payroll processing and/or accounts payable experience.
Demonstrated ability maintaining accurate financial and employee records.
Excellent communication and customer service skills to successfully communicate with a wide audience in varied communication settings.
Proficiency with using personal computers, with experience using Microsoft Office including Teams, SharePoint, Outlook, Word, and Excel.
Demonstrated ability utilizing LEAN or other process improvement tools.
Ability to manage time and adapt to changing priorities; work on multiple priorities and projects simultaneously, meet quick deadlines, and produce timely and quality work products.
Ability to learn quickly when facing new situations: open to change; thrive in an environment of shifting assignments and unfamiliar tasks.
Ability to work independently with minimal supervision.

Desired Qualifications
Experience in PeopleSoft, Oracle, and Laserfiche.
Knowledge of governmental accounting standards and public records retention laws.
Experience managing digital and physical records consistent with retention schedules.
Strong initiative and ability to identify and implement process improvements.

Travel to work locations throughout King County with limited or no public transportation services is required. A valid Washington State Driver's License is required to operate King County vehicles.
   
Union Representation: This position is represented by Teamsters Local 117.
   
Hybrid Work Environment: The work associated with this position will be performed primarily onsite with some telecommuting work as needed. Periodic deadlines around election cycles may require additional hours or flexibility in scheduling. Employees must reside in Washington state and within a reasonable distance to their King County worksite to respond to workplace reporting requirements.
   
Employees will be provided with a County-issued laptop and must maintain a workspace with an internet connection (access may be supplemented in some situations) where they can reliably perform work and remain available and responsive during scheduled work hours. King County has a comprehensive collection of tools and resources to support remote work. The individual selected for this opportunity will be joining an innovative and progressive team that is redefining how we work in the department's hybrid environment.  

Forbes recently named King County as one of Washington State's best employers.
   
Together, with leadership and our employees, we're changing the way government delivers service and winning national recognition as a model of excellence. Are you ready to make a difference? Come join the team dedicated to serving one of the nation's best places to live, work and play.
     
Guided by our "True North", we are making King County a welcoming community where every person can thrive. We value diversity, inclusion and belonging in our workplace and workforce. To reach this goal we are committed to workforce equity. Equitable recruiting, support, and retention is how we will obtain the highest quality workforce in our region; a workforce that shares and will help advance our guiding principles--we are one team; we solve problems; we focus on the customer; we drive for results; we are racially just; we respect all people; we lead the way; and we are responsible stewards. We encourage people of all backgrounds and identities to apply, including Native American and people of color, immigrants, refugees, women, LGBTQ+, people living with disabilities, and veterans.
     
King County is an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Employer
No person is unlawfully excluded from employment opportunities based on race, color, religion, national origin, sex (including gender identity, sexual orientation and pregnancy), age, genetic information, disability, veteran status, or other protected class. Our EEO policy applies to all employment actions, including but not limited to recruitment, hiring, selection for training, promotion, transfer, demotion, layoff, termination, rates of pay or other forms of compensation.
     
To Apply 
If you are interested in pursuing this position, please follow the application instructions carefully. If you need this announcement in an alternate language or format, would like to request accommodation or assistance in the application or assessment process or if you have questions please contact your recruiter listed on this job announcement.

For more information regarding this recruitment, please contact: 
    Reeshema Lewis
    Sr. HR Business Partner
Email:  Reeshema.Lewis@kingcounty.gov 