=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Analyst (Auditor - Analyst I)
Salary: $96,605.00 - $118,768.00 YEAR
Location: 1221 SW 4th Ave, OR, OR, 97204
Employer: City of Portland
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2025-11-10
Job Type: Regular
Remote Employment: Flexible/Hybrid
Job Number: 2025-00923
Bureau: Office of the City Auditor
Opening Date: 11/10/2025
Closing Date: 11/24/2025 11:59 PM Pacific

BENEFITS:
  • Health Care (Medical, Vision and Dental)
  • Carrot Fertility
  • Wellness Benefits
  • Life Insurance
  • Long-term disability coverage to eligible employees and their families.
  • Employee Assistance Plan
  • Flexible Spending Accounts
  • Retirement
  • Oregon Public Employees Retirement System (PERS), including contributions to the PERS IAP plan paid by employer
  • Family Medical Leave
  • City Paid Parental Leave

AND SO MANY MORE!
Benefits may vary depending on bargaining unit and employment status.
Click here to review the many different benefits the City of Portland offers
.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

The City Auditor’s Office is seeking a mission-driven, versatile Elections Analyst to add capacity in critical areas of regulatory enforcement and ballot qualification. This position works within the Elections Division and will advance standards and procedures for the regulated community while providing timely information to the public.

The Elections Analyst works within a team of five employees and reports to the City Elections Officer. The Elections Division serves Portlanders by providing elections cycle management, voter education campaigns, and oversight of campaign finance and lobbying regulations. We’re looking for someone that can provide fast-paced yet detailed program administration and analysis, plan for and conduct investigations, assist with communications, and provide general and technical customer service to a wide range of elections customers. The Elections Analyst works most closely on lobbying regulations and campaign finance enforcement while playing an important role in candidate and petition qualification. All staff have opportunities to learn and grow within the Division with cross-training and access to regular trainings and professional development throughout the year.  Staff in the Elections Division are likely to have heavier workloads during and leading up to an election.

The Auditor is an elected position, independent of City Council and accountable only to the public. The Auditor’s Office ensures open and accountable government by providing impartial reviews and investigations, access to public information, and services to City government and the public. It employs over 50 people across six divisions.

Responsibilities of the Elections Analyst include:

Conducting investigations of alleged violations of local election law, including drafting reports, creating investigation plans, analyzing detailed evidence, and conducting interviews with witnesses;
Reviewing and implementing procedures, rules, and laws, such as leading candidate filings and recommendations about qualification to the Elections Officer;  
Monitoring websites and internal filing systems for compliance with political consultant and lobbying regulations;
Identifying and analyzing areas for continuous improvement for effective, equitable, and timely enforcement procedures;
Providing excellent customer service and tact in dealing with high profile or challenging situations and customers;
Making recommendations that may result in warnings or civil penalties; evaluating new situations and applying appropriate regulations;
Maintaining databases and website information to provide clear and accurate information;
Assisting with trainings or outreach events for a wide variety elections stakeholders in person or virtually in partnership with the City Elections Officer or elections education team members;
Updating and evaluating public facing materials, guides, forms, and internal standards;
Drafting and disseminating mass communications tailored to various elections audiences;
Researching and analyzing public policy data and best practices; drafting corresponding reports to make recommendations to the City Elections Officer or Division Manager.

Successful candidates will have: 

Knowledge of principles, practices, and methods of public administration and administrative, organizational, procedural, analysis;
Knowledge of principles, tools, and techniques for project planning and management and sound business communication;
Ability to analyze and identify administrative, operational, economic, and organizational issues; evaluate alternatives; provide sound, logical, fact-based conclusions and recommendations;
Ability to collect, evaluate, and interpret data in statistical and narrative forms; ability to use quantitative and qualitative analysis, tools, and modeling;
Ability to analyze, interpret, explain, and apply relevant laws, regulations, ordinances, policies, and procedures;
Ability to communicate clearly, logically, and persuasively, both orally and in writing; prepare clear, concise, and comprehensive reports, correspondence, and other documents involving administrative, organizational, technical, budgetary, and financial data; communicate complex analytical topics to non-technical audiences;
Ability to exercise independent judgment, problem-solve, and take initiative within established procedures and guidelines;
Ability to maintain accurate files, records, and documentations;
Ability to interface with customers in high profile, public-facing environments.

Hybrid Location:  The Auditor’s Office is overseen by an independently elected official and currently operates a hybrid schedule, requiring staff in office in Portland City Hall for half of the pay period and allowing telework for the remaining work time. Questions about this policy or other aspects of the role can be sent to Arianna.Gazca@portlandoregon.gov.

Diversity and Equity: The Auditor’s Office values a diverse workforce and a culture of equity and inclusion in delivering public services and everyday interactions in the workplace. The Office encourages candidates with experience working with a broad range of individuals and diverse communities to apply.

Candidates must have at a minimum any combination of education and experience equivalent to the following:


Education/Training: course work from an accredited college or university in quantitative methods, management, public administration, or a related field;  AND

Experience: One (1) year of professional and responsible analytical work or experience directly related to the Elections Division’s functions.




Preferred Qualifications: 

Bachelor’s degree from an accredited college or university with major course work in quantitative methods, management, public administration, or a related field; AND

Experience working in regulatory compliance monitoring and administrative enforcement (e.g., complaint intake, evidence analysis, report drafting).




To Apply: 

To apply, attach your resume detailing your relevant professional and educational experience and answer the supplemental questions in the fields provided below. Separate documents for supplemental responses will not be reviewed.

Note: Application materials should not exceed 5 pages. If they do, applicants may be disqualified. Applicants should not provide information that has not been requested (letters of recommendation, additional/other work samples or certifications). 

Question 1: Tell us about your ability to conduct thorough and objective investigations into alleged violations of laws? 

Question 2: Describe your ability to work in a non-partisan manner in politically charged environments with a wide variety of elections customers?

Question 3: Tell us about your experience: as a member of a historically underrepresented group participating in government decision-making; ensuring equitable operations or program outcomes; making workplaces and/or public spaces more inclusive; or exposure to racial inequities and actions you took to help resolve them. If your experiences are different from those listed and you have a commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion, please explain how you will manifest that commitment in this position. (connect items in your resume to demonstrate how you meet this qualification, when possible).

Question 4: Describe your experience implementing or adapting to regulatory changes.  

Recruitment timeline is subject to change. Approximate key dates are planned as follows:

Application period:  11/10/2025 - 11/24/2025
Phone screen: 12/3/2025 - 12/4/2025
First interviews: 12/5/2025 - 12/12/2025
Second interviews: 12/17/2025-12/19/2025
Job offer: 12/29/2025 - 1/2/2026

Salary range/Pay equity:  Per the Oregon State Pay Equity Law, individual salaries are determined based on the experience and education listed in a candidate’s resume/application. It is strongly encouraged to include any transferable experience (paid or unpaid regardless of how recent) to ensure an offer is reflective of all directly related and equivalent experience.
   
Language pay differential: Auditor’s Office employees who speak one or more languages in addition to English, may be eligible to receive additional compensation if they qualify and use their language skills to assist the community.

Employee benefits: The City of Portland is committed to offering medical, dental, vision, basic life, and long-term disability coverage that provides quality care, support and value to eligible employees and their family members. Additional benefits such as flexible spending accounts, supplemental life insurance and employee assistance program coverage are available to ensure employees have the appropriate tools to safeguard themselves and their family. The City of Portland participates in PERS, the Oregon Public Employee Retirement System.  Find more information on the City of Portland's benefits here: https://www.portlandoregon.gov/bhr/60196

Civil Service: This at-will position is exempt from Civil Service. It serves at the discretion of the City Auditor, subject to Human Resources Administrative Rules for the Auditor’s Office and City Charter and Code.

Work status: Non-citizen applicants must be authorized to work in the United States at the time of application.

Work location: The position is based in City Hall, 1221 SW 4th Ave. The Auditor’s Office is currently operating in a hybrid schedule of in-person and remote work, with employees expected to work half-time in-person.

Veteran’s preference: If you are requesting Veteran's Preference, attach a copy of your DD214 and/or Veteran's Administration letter stating your disability to your profile (if applicable), as well as checking the box identifying yourself as a Veteran. You must request Veteran's Preference AND include a copy of your documentation for each recruitment you apply for. Veteran's Preference documentation must be submitted no later than 11:59 PM on the closing date of this recruitment.

Equal employment opportunity:  It is the policy of the City of Portland that no person shall be discriminated against based on race, religion, color, sex, marital status, family status, national origin, age, mental or physical disability, protected veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity or source of income. The City values diversity and encourages everyone who is interested in employment with the City to apply.

Disability, Pregnancy, and Religious Accommodations: If you identify as a person with a disability, are pregnant or nursing, or observe a religious practice(s) and would like to request a reasonable accommodation when applying for this job, contact Administrative Specialist Arianna Gazca at Arianna.Gazca@portlandoregon.gov. 

Technical assistance: If you have questions about how to apply or require any assistance in submitting your application, please contact Administrative Specialist Arianna Gazca at Arianna.Gazca@portlandoregon.gov. 

For more information about the Auditor’s Office: https://www.portlandoregon.gov/auditor/