=== JOB DETAILS ===

Salary: $53,471.72 - $74,860.40 Annually
Location: Brighton, CO
Job Type: Regular Full-Time
Job Number: 02785
Department: County Clerk and Recorder
Division: Elections
Opening Date: 02/13/2017
Closing Date: 3/6/2017 4:30 PM Mountain

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

This is Adams County! 

We are seeking a manager to provide planning, leadership oversight, and supervision to the working groups within the ballot processing area and provide leadership/supervision, as well as planning and administrative support, to the Elections Operations and Logistics area during non-election cycles. The successful candidate will contribute information for budget planning; prepare and maintain records and reports; develop and administer performance standards, expectations, and evaluations to two full-time employees; administer Military and Overseas (UOCAVA) voter registration and ballot delivery program; administer all mail ballot delivery, sorting, receiving, and deconstruction; and oversee the Health Care Facility ballot delivery and Canvass process. 

Coordinates and oversees all aspects of the ballot processing programs which includes: staffing, recruiting, interviewing, assigning, and scheduling of temporary employees.
Refines and coordinates all processes and procedures relating to ballot processing.
Creates job guides or materials as necessary to accommodate process and statutory changes.
Researches and implements technologies to increase efficiencies and minimize costs.
Serves as liaison and point of contact to overseas and military voters.
Prepares and conducts Canvass under supervision of the Administrator.
Develops time lines and oversees planning for the area.
Oversees implementation of the Group Heath Care Facilities voting program.
Performs data analysis to provide staffing recommendations.
Reviews, tracks, and reports progress with ballot processing.
Researches, collects and compiles information from various sources including laws, polices, rules, and data to develop process efficiencies.
Sets-up and maintains ballot management system during the election process.
Performs related duties and responsibilities as required.
Supervision Exercised:
Exercises direct supervision over staff.
Knowledge, Skills and Abilities:
Effectively communicates both orally and in writing.
Operates a personal computer and office equipment.
Possesses excellent attention to detail.
Applies sound analytical thinking and concentrates on developing solutions.
Successfully handles multiple demands with short time frames.
Ability to administer multiple programs simultaneously.
Knowledge of project and business process management principles and tools, managing time lines and allocating resources towards accomplishing successful project completion goals within specified time frames.
Knowledge of Human Resource principles, County and Division policies and procedures.
Prioritization, time management, teamwork and communication skills are essential.
Advanced knowledge of election processes, procedures and applicable statutes and SOS election rules.
Working knowledge of software products (Word, Excel, Access, PowerPoint, and Outlook).
Ability to establish, maintain and foster positive and harmonious working relationships with those contacted in the course of work.

Experience: Three to five years of related experience, including one year of supervisory experience, or any equiva­lent combination of training and experience which provides the required knowledge, skills and abilities.
Education and Training: Bachelor's degree in business, communications, political science or related field preferred. 
License or Certificate: Certified Colorado Election Official (State Certification).
Background Check: Must pass a criminal background check.
Other: Must be registered to vote in Colorado.

 

Adams County and the 17th Judicial District Attorney's Office complies with Colorado’s Job Application Fairness Act (“JAFA”). JAFA prohibits employers from asking individuals to disclose their age, date of birth, or dates of school attendance or graduation on an initial employment application. However, additional application materials such as certifications and transcripts containing this information may be required for certain positions; if such additional materials are requested, applicants may redact information that identifies the applicant’s age, date of birth, or dates or attendance or graduation.

Weekly Hours - At least 40 hoursEmployees qualify for Health benefits (medical, dental, vision, Life/ADD, disability), the mandatory 9% Pension enrollment and the optional 457b deferred compensation package. They start accruals for Vacation and Sick. https://youtu.be/ILAvllPaGb4   


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Our Mission is to responsibly serve the Adams County community with integrity and innovation. How will you contribute to our mission?
        
        
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Describe your management style.
        
        
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        How would you develop processes for a new program?
        
        
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Describe your experience in Election Administration.
        
        
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        How would you go about establishing your credibility quickly with your team?
        
        
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        If you possess three to five years of related experience, including one year of supervisory experience; OR if you have any equiva­lent combination of training and experience which provides the required knowledge, skills and abilities, please answer YES to this question.
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Do you possess a Bachelor's degree in business, communications, political science or related field?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Are you a Certified Colorado Election Official (State Certification)?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        Are you registered to vote in Colorado?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        