=== JOB DETAILS ===

Salary: $4,785.83 - $5,982.33 Monthly
Location: Castle Rock, CO
Job Type: Full-Time Regular
Job Number: 2020-01201
Department: Clerk & Recorder
Opening Date: 04/14/2020
Closing Date: 4/21/2020 5:00 PM Mountain
FLSA: Exempt

BENEFITS:
  • 10 ½ paid holidays each year + a floating holiday
  • 8 hours of paid vacation per month
  • 8 hours of paid sick time per month
  • Medical insurance employees can choose from three plan options:   Aetna WHN CO Front Range Select,  Aetna Open Access Select (HMO) or Aetna WHN CO Front Range Choice POSII HDHP/HSA.
  • Life insurance 1.5 times employee salary at no cost to employee
  • Short-term and long-term disability at no cost to employee
  • Mandatory retirement – defined contribution of either 6% or 8% - matched at 8%
  • Annual performance reviews with potential for an increase

Additionally, we offer dental, vision, accident/critical illness insurance, tuition reimbursement, and employee training.  Part-time employees receive a pro-rated benefits package.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===


The Election Services Manager is responsible for the management and coordination of elections administrative operations, voter registration, mapping for voting districts and precincts, addressing library, and support for mail ballot processing as directed by the leadership team. The objective of this position is to perform a variety of functions and diverse leadership roles on a routine basis, including performance management for a team of Election Specialists. This is a highly visible position requiring exceptional leadership, organizational, and communication skills. The Election Services Manager is responsible for oversight of responsibilities within the elections office and Voter Service and Polling Centers, coaching and supervision of staff; creation and enforcement of policies, procedures, and state and federal statutes and regulations; creation and execution of strategic and tactical plans for operating successful elections; coordination of election functions with entities participating in a County election or conducting their own election; managing key vendor relationships and election assets. Coordinates with and assists other Clerk & Recorder Divisions as needed.

(The following examples are illustrative only and are not intended to be all inclusive.)

Supervises employees and temporary staff including coordination of schedules, assigning and reviewing work, performance evaluation, and professional development.
Facilitates and/or participates in hiring and onboarding employees; succession planning.
Manages and directs work for staff and monitors their responsibilities to ensure compliance with office policies and procedures, County policy, state statute, and federal regulation.
Oversees the quality and accuracy of the services provided to citizens, coordinating entities, community partners, and other County departments, including:
Voter registration
Mail ballot processing
Customer service
Data entry
Mapping and addressing
Election Judge coordination
Voter Service and Polling Center coordination and operations
Voter outreach
Election coordination
Communications and documentation
Records requests
Develops and oversees election judge training program; Responsible for staff professional development.
Collaborates with Clerk and Deputy of Elections to create strategic plans, develop and manage budget, problem solve, and achieve established goals of the Division and of the Clerk and Recorder's Office.
Assists in Logic and Accuracy Testing, Risk Limiting Audit, and Canvass Board.
Coordinates and assists with the conduct of elections for municipalities, special districts, and other agencies.
Acquires and maintains a highly technical working knowledge of relevant laws, regulations, policies, standards, and elections operations procedures.
Administers state election laws and rules, and federal election laws to provide successful voting experience to staff and public.
Creates, revises, and maintains standard operating procedures to perform role specific functions.
Reviews and revises training materials and documentation as needed.
Implements and oversees quality assurance measures to ensure processes and procedures are tested to evaluate for potential improvement and accuracy. Manages continuous improvement initiatives.
Participates in relevant working groups/committees as a subject matter expert for Elections Division across County and State.
Researches, tracks, and provides input on proposed or pending legislative changes. Participates in the Colorado County Clerks Association Elections Technical Committee.
Provide customer service both in person, online, and via telephone.
Assists staff with accounting functions of the office.
Completes opening/closing procedures for office.
Lives out the Vision, Mission, and Core Values of the Clerk and Recorder's Office, maintaining a supportive environment conducive to teamwork.
 
MAIL BALLOT PROCESSING
May oversee ballot processing including; ballot sorter, signature verification, evaluation, ballot removal, adjudication, duplication, and Ballot Information Tracking System.
May perform research and reporting.
May be responsible for preparing mail ballot sorting equipment, including, programing, testing, signature upload/download, troubleshooting, and working with vendor as needed.
Acts as subject matter expert and resource for staff and election judges.
 
OTHER DUTIES:
Performs other duties as assigned. Will assist Clerk or Deputy as required. Will provide support across Divisions as business needs arise. Crosstrain as needed to support Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP).

SUPERVISION RECEIVED: 
Must be able to work independently, with minimal supervision and know and understand when situations should be advanced to a higher level of authority.                                     

SUPERVISORY RESPONSIBILITIES: 
Exercises direct supervision, coaching, and training over full time, part time, and temporary staff.
This position assists with the direction and oversight of election judges.
Provides relevant feedback related to training and performance.
 
INDEPENDENT JUDGMENT: 
Identify opportunities for process and/or productivity enhancements. Design and implement change.
Effectively utilize resources (reports, policies, experience, and job knowledge) to draw logical conclusions to problems.
Decisions are guided by governing statutes and rules, department/division policies under direction of Deputy of Elections.
Using workload indicators, determines and sets work schedules for staff.


EDUCATION and/or EXPERIENCE: 

Bachelor's Degree in Public Administration, Political Science, Business Management, or other relevant field preferred, three years of management/supervision experience, and two years of experience in the conduct of Colorado elections preferred, or  at least three years of Elections-related experience; or a combination of related education and experience.
Ability to meet continuing education requirements set by the State, County, and the Clerk & Recorder's Office.
Ability to meet technical training requirements due to legislation.
KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, AND ABILITIES:
Knowledge:
Advanced knowledge of relevant laws, regulations, policies, standards, and elections operations procedures including, but not limited to, Title 1, 22, 31,32 C.R.S, concerning Colorado Elections, School Board, Municipalities, and Special District Elections, Colorado Secretary of State Rules, Help America Vote Act 2002 (HAVA), Motor Voter Act 1994, and Uniformed Voters Absentee Voting Act 1986 (UOCAVA).
Knowledge of principles and processes for providing customer and personal services.
Knowledge of administrative and clerical procedures and systems such as word processing, managing files and records, and other office procedures and terminology.
Knowledge of business and management principles involved in strategic planning, resource allocation, leadership technique, and coordination of people and resources.
Knowledge of Human Resource principles, County and Division policies and procedures.
Skills:
Proficient skill level in Microsoft 2010 Outlook, Word, Excel, and PowerPoint
Proficient math skills.
Competencies in creating, evaluating, and improving business processes.
Excellent analytical, reasoning, and troubleshooting abilities.
Effectively lead teams in change environment.
Must be able to communicate effectively in both oral and written form, as well as fluently speak, read, and write English. 
Recognizes and uses correct English grammar, punctuation, and spelling; produces written information that is appropriate for the intended audience.
Abilities:
Ability to understand, interpret, explain, and comply with election law and Secretary of State rules as they relate to security and election equipment (including but not limited to Title 1 C.R.S, SOS Rules Concerning Elections).
Ability to work effectively both independently and in a team environment and utilize initiative to direct own and others' activities.
Ability to manage multiple activities concurrently, allocating time to each according to prioritization.
Maintains confidentiality of information consistent with applicable federal, state and county rules and regulations.
Establishes and maintains effective working relationships with employees, departments, agencies, vendors, and the public.
Ability to apply common sense understanding to interpret and carry out instructions.
Identify problems; determine accuracy and relevance of information; use sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.
Ability to create, evaluate, and improve business processes.
 
CERTIFICATES, LICENSES, REGISTRATIONS:
Must have and maintain a valid Class "C" Colorado Driver's License and complying Colorado Insurance.
US citizenship required.
Registered Voter of Colorado.
Must pass state and/or national criminal background check annually.
Must pass fingerprinting test.
Must pass and maintain Criminal Justice Information System testing and certification.
Sworn as an agent of the Douglas County Clerk and Recorder's Office to discharge duties conveyed by CRS 1-1-110.
Must obtain Secretary of State Election Certification within 1 year from date of hire and maintain certification.
 
WORK ENVIRONMENT:
Work is generally performed in an office or warehouse environment with occasional travel to other locations during the course and scope of duties.
Occasionally may be asked to drive a variety of types and sizes of vehicles.
Subject to blackout periods for planned time off lasting up to three months at a time. Typically, this timeframe may begin 60 days prior to Election Day and may end 30 days past Election Day. Deputy of Elections, Chief Deputy, and/or Clerk and Recorder, based on workloads and operational need, may identify additional blackout periods with little notice.
Extended work hours required to include evenings, weekends and holidays to complete duties and responsibilities.
Must be available 24/7 via mobile device and email to conduct business during and after normal scheduled hours of operations and respond to after-hours office emergencies as they arise.
Required to stand, walk, sit, talk, hear, and drive. 
Specific vision abilities required by this job include vision and the ability to adjust focus. 
Occasional heavy lifting 35 pounds or more.
Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions 
In the event of an emergency/disaster in or near the County, all County employees are expected to make every effort to be available to assist the County Manager, Elected/Appointed Officials and Department Directors to ensure the continued operation of any and all necessary County functions. This may require being available to perform additional duties and hours beyond what is normally required.  In the event that an exempt employee does work more than 40 hours a week in support of County operations during an emergency, such employee may receive overtime or other appropriate wage compensation in accordance with existing County policies or at the discretion of the County.

The ability to successfully complete pre-employment screening including but not limited to: reference checks, criminal background (to include fingerprinting through a national database), degree verification, motor vehicle record check and drug screen is required.