=== JOB DETAILS ===

Salary: $57,024.00 Annually
Location: Boulder, CO
Job Type: Term
Job Number: 3292(PC2)
Department: Clerk and Recorders Office
Division: CLK Elections
Opening Date: 04/07/2020
Closing Date: 4/19/2020 11:59 PM Mountain
FLSA: Exempt

BENEFITS:
  • a family-friendly workplace, including paid caregiver leave, a breast feeding friendly-work environment, sick child care, an infants-at-work policy, and generous paid vacation, medical leave, and holidays
  • the opportunity to take charge of your well-being through a nationally-recognized wellness program, employee assistance program, and the choice of comprehensive health plans that include vision and dental coverage
  • peace of mind for the future with PERA pension, PERA 401k, and Social Security retirement plans, in addition to life and disability insurance, as well as critical illness and accidental insurance options
  • the opportunity to master new skills with robust learning programs and certificates, federal loan forgiveness (after ten years of public service), and county-paid tuition assistance for continuing education
  • free and discounted ways to get around town with an RTD Eco Pass and B-Cycle membership

For more information about benefits, visit the Jobs page: https://www.bouldercounty.org/jobs/

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===



Are you passionate about democracy?
Do you enjoy putting your skills to work in the public interest? 

The Boulder County Clerk and Recorder's Office, Elections Division, has an opening for a Technology Specialist. This is a term position for the duration of 2020 which includes both the June 30 Primary Election and the November 3 General Election. This position will learn and perform a variety of complex, technical, and specialized tasks associated related to elections, software/hardware support, and voting systems.

To be successful in this position you must be eager to learn, possess an aptitude for troubleshooting, technical information and documenting process through conversation, implementation and observation. Successful applicants will be comfortable in a high-stakes, team-focused work environment. We seek a person who is process-oriented and motivated to do meaningful work that facilitates the democratic process.

The ideal candidate is self-motivated, enjoys actively participating in a collaborative environment, and possesses excellent written and verbal communication skills. They have the demonstrated ability to use complicated software, perform moderately sophisticated tasks in MS Excel and Access, learn and apply new skills effectively with minimal support, and communicate technical information (written and verbal) to nontechnical personnel. Additionally, they demonstrate creativity and innovation through problem-solving. Ability to work effectively under pressure while remaining positive and flexible is also key to success.

Our office is committed to ensuring equity and inclusion for our staff and the voting public.

This is a Term full-time, benefited position with Boulder County. Work hours are Monday through Friday from 8:00am to 4:30pm. This position requires additional hours; evenings, weekends, and some county holidays as needed during election cycles. This position will work out of Boulder. Under FLSA guidelines this position is exempt from overtime.

HIRING SALARY: $57, 024

 
Ensure compliance with Colorado statute and rule as well as Clerk and Recorder policies and procedures for areas of responsibility
Train and supervise temporary workers, ensuring accuracy and accountability for work completed
Instill confidence in temporary staff by demonstrating integrity and approachability
Support planning, scheduling, and execution of election system processes such as: VSPC (vote center) equipment testing and setup
Ensure voting system hardware and software components are updated, maintained, tested, and secure
Set up, maintain, and support related hardware, software, and network components
Create and maintain standard operating procedure (SOP) documents
Present data to audiences with varying technical backgrounds
Act as backup for peers, learning essential technology and procedures in other areas to support critical functions including database management and reporting, and technology support
Work with election division to identify and adopt best-in-class practices, procedures, and technology solutions
Support and collaborate on special projects outside of the elections cycle, improving processes and systems within the scope of elections
Perform additional related work as required
May be reassigned during emergency situations
 

PLEASE NOTE: When submitting your application be sure to include all relevant education and experience, as applications are screened based on the qualifications listed in this position announcement. Applications that do not appear to meet minimum qualifications, as outlined below, will not be considered. Resumes are not accepted in lieu of completed applications.

Experience, or a combination of education, experience, and demonstrated aptitude equivalent to: At least six years of professional experience in a technology related capacity as it applies to this position

EDUCATION:
High school diploma or equivalent

EXPERIENCE:
Required experience includes: applying fundamental concepts, practices and procedures related to planning, setup, testing, and troubleshooting of a variety of hardware, software and network components.
 
BACKGROUND CHECK:
A job offer is contingent on passing a criminal background investigation

COVER LETTER:
Applicants are encouraged to submit a cover letter detailing their interest and describing how their drive, education, and experience qualifies them for the position.

DRIVER'S LICENSE:
Requires a valid driver's license, automobile insurance, and a good driving record.


PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS:
Highly advanced experience with Microsoft Excel and Access (forms, reports, linked and embedded tables), Visual Basic, C# or other scripting language, TSQL, SQL Server, ArcGIS,  and SharePoint 
Public speaking experience
Project management experience

KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, & ABILITIES:
Thorough knowledge of supported hardware and software systems. Ability to troubleshoot and solve a variety of technical problems
Ability to communicate procedures of a technical nature to non-technical personnel both orally and in written form
Ability to perform a variety of project tasks requiring good communications skills
Ability to work effectively with other employees
 

Boulder County is a family-friendly workplace dedicated to fostering a diverse, inclusive, and respectful environment for all employees. We prohibit unlawful discrimination against applicants and employees on the basis of race, color, religion, gender, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, socio-economic status, sexual orientation, genetic information, or any other status protected by applicable federal, state, or local law.

 


 