=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Language Services &amp; Community Engagement Program Supervisor
Salary: $78,992.16 - $100,127.46 YEAR
Location: WA 98057-2906, WA, WA, 98104
Employer: King County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2021-01-14
Job Type: Career Service, Full Time, 40 hrs/week
Job Number: 2021RL12689
Department: KCE - King County Elections
Division: Election Outreach
Opening Date: 01/14/2021
Closing Date: 2/4/2021 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Exempt
Bargaining Unit: Z3 : KC Personnel Guidelines

BENEFITS:
  • Medical, dental, and vision coverage: King County pays 100% of the premiums for eligible employees and family members
  • Life and disability insurance: employees are provided basic coverage and given the opportunity to purchase additional insurance for both the employee and eligible dependents
  • Retirement: King County employees are eligible to participate in a pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems and a 457(b) deferred-compensation plan
  • Transportation program and ORCA transit pass
  • 12 paid holidays each year (plus 2 personal holidays)
  • Generous vacation and paid sick leave
  • Paid parental leave, family and medical leaves, and volunteer leave
  • Flexible Spending Account
  • Wellness programs
  • Onsite gyms and activity centers
  • Employee giving program
  • Employee assistance programs
  • Flexible schedules and telecommuting options, depending on position
  • Training and career development programs

For additional information about employee benefits please visit our
Benefits, Payroll, and Retirement Page
.
This is a general description of the benefits offered to eligible King County employees, and every effort has been made to ensure its accuracy.  If any information on this document conflicts with the provisions of a collective bargaining agreement (CBA), the CBA prevails.  Also, in the event of any incorrect information in this document, applicable laws, policies, rules, CBAs, or official plan documents will prevail.
NOTE:
Benefits for Term Limited Temporary (TLT) or Short Term Temporary (STT) positions, including leave eligibility and/or participation in the pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems, will vary based upon the terms and details of the position. Short Term Temporary positions are not eligible for an ORCA transit pass.
For inquiries about the specifics of this position, please contact the recruiter identified on this job posting.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

SUMMARY:


King County Department of Elections is searching for an energetic and resourceful professional who likes to "get stuff done." The Language Services & Community Engagement Program Supervisor position in the Elections Department combines an exciting environment with the opportunity to cultivate talents and apply a variety of skills. The ideal candidate will thrive in an innovative, fast-paced environment and will not hesitate to roll up both sleeves, work hard, have fun, and get the job done.
 
We are looking for a dynamic person to lead the Language Services and Community Engagement Program. This position will administer the Voter Education Fund outreach activities and programs as well as coordinate activities between the Department and community-based organizations, community leaders and other public sector partners. This position also supervises the team responsible for translating election materials, providing language-based assistance to new and existing voters in King County, and supporting the Department’s community engagement work.
 
A key purpose of this position is to promote the vision, mission and priorities of the department with stakeholders as well as working with them to identify and ultimately remove barriers to voting. The outreach work is performed under limited supervision and requires considerable independent judgment and discretion in responding to and interacting with individuals and groups, sometimes in politically sensitive situations.  The work requires an understanding of County and Department priorities, policies and procedures, as well as community interests and concerns. A successful candidate for this position will be comfortable both serving a very public role for the department, as well as overseeing technical internal processes related to translation and customer service.
   
King County Elections (KCE) manages voter registrations and elections for more than 1.4 million voters in King County, the largest vote-by-mail county in the United States. KCE's mission is to conduct fair, open and accurate elections. As a leader in providing inclusive elections, KCE is focused on three key priorities – (1) actively identifying and working to remove barriers to voting at both the individual and community level, (2) strengthening relationships with community and governmental partners, and (3) creating a culture of professional growth and development, openness and inclusion. Learn more at www.kingcounty.gov/elections.aspx.
 
Who May Apply: This position is open to all qualified applicants.  Applications will be screened for qualifications and completion of all the required materials and forms.  The most competitive applicants may be contacted for further steps in the selection process.
 
Materials Required to Apply: Completed King County employment application form (electronic or paper), a Resume and a Cover Letter.
 
Work Schedule:  The standard workweek for this position is Monday through Friday, 40 hours per week.  We require the flexibility to work additional hours during peak periods of the Election cycle.  This position is exempt from the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act and is therefore not eligible for overtime.

Supervise the Elections Language Services Program focusing on translation services and outreach to Limited English Speaking (LES) voters and communities in King County. This includes coordinating program activities, ensuring program deliverables are achieved, evaluating program progress and results. 
Oversee the Voter Education Fund program, including regularly communicating with and providing assistance to Voter Education Fund partners, collaborating with program partners on the on-going vision and goals of the program, and preparing program results 
Build long-term, sustainable relationships with community partners and stakeholders to support the department in its goal of removing barriers to voting. 
Plan, schedule and supervise the work activities of subordinates, including coaching teambuilding, and assisting team members in solving challenging problems. 
Coordinate outreach, education and engagement activities with internal and external stakeholders, including providing trainings and presentations. 
Develop and regularly update program policy, methodology and operating procedures for the translation of ballots, voters' pamphlet and all other election-related materials. 
Represent the program and act as liaison to internal and external customers, including the Office of the Secretary of State, other King County agencies, and other election departments. 
Make staff assignments and allocate resources to support outreach events, which publicize election services and resources. 
Assist voters and communicate regularly with advocacy and community-based groups and organizations. 
Coordinate the team’s support of other department work during an election cycle such as data entry and Vote Center staffing.   

The ideal candidate possesses strong communications skills, is able to naturally navigate relationships across many sectors and communities, has the ability to build powerful teams, and shows empathy toward others.
 

Experience in community organizing or in the operation of a community-based organization and/or a public sector/government setting. 
Strong communication and team building skills with a focus on employee development. 
A combination of education and experience with translation services, community outreach and stakeholder relationship building. 
Skill and experience with supervision and management in a setting with union represented employees and the ability to direct the day-to-day activities of the workgroup. 
Skill and experience communicating strategy and vision to a team, stakeholders and customers. 

Desirable Qualifications:

Experience in grant administration.
Fluency in a language other than English and experience in translation. 
Candidates that have first-hand experience living as an immigrant in this country is desired.



Travel to work locations throughout King County with limited or no public transportation services is required. A valid Washington State Driver's License is required to operate King County vehicles.
 
Union Representation:  This position is non-represented.
 
Classification:  Program Supervisor II

Temporary Telecommuting Requirement 
Some of the work associated with this position will be performed remotely, at least through July 5, 2021 in compliance with King County’s telecommuting mandate.  Employees will be provided with a County issued laptop and must maintain a workspace with an internet connection where they can reliably perform work and remain available and responsive during scheduled work hours.  Employees must reside in WA state and within a reasonable distance to their King County worksite to respond to workplace reporting requirements.  There will be situations where the employee is required to report to a County worksite.  Please note that when an employee conducts work that is likely to bring them in contact with another individual, safety precautions are required by the department in alignment with the Public Health Directive from the Seattle & King County Public Health Officer.

To support employees during this time King County has a robust collection of tools and resources to support working remotely. The individual selected for this opportunity will be joining an innovative and progressive team. King County is doing its part to reduce the spread of COVID-19 and remains committed to reducing our carbon footprint.
 
Forbes recently named King County as one of Washington State's best employers.
 
Together, with leadership and our employees, we're changing the way government delivers service and winning national recognition as a model of excellence. Are you ready to make a difference? Come join the team dedicated to serving one of the nation's best places to live, work and play.
 
Guided by our "True North", we are making King County a welcoming community where every person can thrive. We value diversity, inclusion and belonging in our workplace and workforce. To reach this goal we are committed to workforce equity. Equitable recruiting, support, and retention is how we will obtain the highest quality workforce in our region; a workforce that shares and will help advance our guiding principles--we are one team; we solve problems; we focus on the customer; we drive for results; we are racially just; we respect all people; we lead the way; and we are responsible stewards. We encourage people of all backgrounds and identities to apply, including Native American and people of color, immigrants, refugees, women, LGBTQ+, people living with disabilities, and veterans.
 
King County is an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Employer
No person is unlawfully excluded from employment opportunities based on race, color, religion, national origin, sex (including gender identity, sexual orientation and pregnancy), age, genetic information, disability, veteran status, or other protected class. Our EEO policy applies to all employment actions, including but not limited to recruitment, hiring, selection for training, promotion, transfer, demotion, layoff, termination, rates of pay or other forms of compensation.
 
To Apply 
If you are interested in pursuing this position, please follow the application instructions carefully. If you need this announcement in an alternate language or format, would like to request accommodation or assistance in the application or assessment process or if you have questions please contact your recruiter listed on this job announcement.

 For more information regarding this recruitment, please contact:  
 Reeshema Lewis  
 Sr. HR Business Partner  
 Email: Reeshema.Lewis@kingcounty.gov
 Phone: 206-263-8413
   