=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: DEPUTY REGISTRAR OF VOTERS
Salary: $97,406.40 - $126,630.40 YEAR
Location: Reno, NV, NV, 89512
Employer: Washoe County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2025-04-17
Job Type: Full Time
Job Number: 60017927 (04/2025)
Department: Registrar of Voters
Opening Date: 04/17/2025
Closing Date: 5/7/2025 11:59 PM Pacific

BENEFITS:
  • Nevada PERS Retirement - Washoe County pays 100% of the PERS contribution for each benefit eligible employee.
  • Health, Dental, Life and Vision Insurance - Washoe County contributes 100% of the premium for each employee.  Washoe County also contributes 50% of the premium for dependent coverage. Note: New employees are automatically enrolled in the High Deductible Health Plan (HDHP) with a Health Savings Account. Washoe County contributes up to $2,500 annually (based on benefit effective date and coverage tier) into the employee's Health Savings Account (HSA). Newly hired employees become eligible for health benefits after 30 days of employment.  Benefits Link - Click Here
  • Deferred Compensation plans available
  • 12 Paid Holidays
  • Vacation Accrual (120 hours per year, increasing with continued employment)
  • Sick Leave (120 hours per year, increasing with continued employment)
  • Longevity Pay
  • Merit Increases - Full-time employees eligible to receive an annual merit increase of 5% until the position classification’s maximum salary is reached.
  • Cost-of living adjustments - historical annual COLA increases for 2017-2024 have ranged from 2.5% - 5.0%
  • There are no Social Security deductions (although a 1.45% deduction for Medicare is required)
  • Nevada does not have state or local income tax*

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Under general direction of the Registrar of Voters, the Deputy Registrar of Voters is responsible for the technical operations of the department; acts as the Registrar of Voters in the department head’s absence; and performs related work as required.

This is an Open Competitive/Countywide Promotional recruitment being conducted to fill a current full-time vacancy in the Registrar of Voters. The list established from this recruitment may be used to fill future vacancies as they occur.

For more information on this position, please see the Job Specification at https://www.washoecounty.gov/humanresources/Careers/jobspecs.php

Two years of full-time management level experience to include at least one year of supervisory experience and experience with policy development and interpreting local, state, and federal law OR two years of full-time elections management experience to include at least one year of supervisory experience AND a bachelor’s degree from an accredited college or university in public administration, business administration or a closely related field; OR an equivalent combination of education and experience.

License Or Certificate:

A valid driver’s license is required at the time of appointment and must be maintained for continued employment in this classification. 
Pursuant to NRS 293.217, must be a registered voter in the State of Nevada within Washoe County at the time of appointment and must be maintained for continued employment in this classification. 
Must be a United States citizen at the time of application.
The Ideal Candidate Will:
Have a strong desire to serve the Washoe County community
Have strong interpersonal skills, including the ability to tactfully and effectively navigate complex and difficult scenarios
Have strong administrative and organizational skills 
Proven experience assessing and improving processes, including finding creative solutions to problems
Have the ability to effectively communicate both verbally and in writing during challenging situations
Have the ability to effectively manage, assess and train employees
Have excellent listening and mediation skills
Have strong desire to help and develop staff and processes




The Deputy Registrar of Voters is a Confidential position and is therefore not covered by a bargaining unit.

Background checks will be conducted on selected applicants through the State of Nevada and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). Per the Washoe County Background and Reference Checks Policy, new and rehired employees are required to submit to a fingerprint based background investigation.  Effective January 1, 2025, the $39.00 fee associated with this background investigation will be paid by the employee (if applicable) and deducted automatically from the first paycheck. Employment is contingent upon the results of the background check, although a record of conviction will not necessarily bar an applicant from employment. 

Washoe County requires its employees to reside in the state of Nevada or neighboring California communities such as Truckee, South Lake Tahoe or Susanville as of their first day of work. 

Washoe County hires all new employees at the minimum rate of the salary range and eligible employees may receive an annual merit increase of 5% until they reach the maximum salary for the classification.  Upon promotion, current Washoe County employees are placed at the minimum rate of the salary range for the higher classification of the new position OR a promotional calculation, whichever is greater.  

Submit the required application at: https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/washoecounty

 In addition, the following documents must be included with the application before the filing deadline in order to be considered: 


Compelling cover letter
CV which includes how the applicant meets the Ideal Candidate criteria

If you have any questions about the position, please contact Julie Paholke, Human Resources Manager at jpaholke@washoecounty.gov.
 
TENTATIVE TIMELINE:

April 16, 2025, through May 7, 2025.
Applications Accepted. 
  
Week of May 5, 2025
Application materials are reviewed to identify the candidates with the most potential for success in the position.

Week of May 12 and the week of May 19, 2025
Background Checks conducted on those candidates.

Week of May 26, 2025
Top candidates identified and scheduled for interview.

Week of June 2, 2025
Interviews.

June 30, 2025
Estimated Hire Date.

Questions: Julie Paholke
jpaholke@washoecounty.gov


Washoe County is proud to be an equal opportunity employer and is committed to a diverse workforce that creates a sense of belonging for all employees and citizens, thereby encouraging persons from all backgrounds and experiences to apply for employment.
 
Washoe County will recruit, hire, train and promote into all job levels without regard to race, religion or belief, gender, marital status or domestic partnership, familial status, national origin, age, mental or physical disability, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender expression or identity, genetic information (GINA), veteran status, political affiliation, membership in an employee association or union or any other protected class under applicable federal or state law.

	Nevada PERS Retirement - Washoe County pays 100% of the PERS contribution for each benefit eligible employee.	Health, Dental, Life and Vision Insurance - Washoe County contributes 100% of the premium for each employee.  Washoe County also contributes 50% of the premium for dependent coverage. Note: New employees are automatically enrolled in the High Deductible Health Plan (HDHP) with a Health Savings Account. Washoe County contributes up to $2,500 annually (based on benefit effective date and coverage tier) into the employee's Health Savings Account (HSA). Newly hired employees become eligible for health benefits after 30 days of employment.  Benefits Link - Click Here	Deferred Compensation plans available	12 Paid Holidays	Vacation Accrual (120 hours per year, increasing with continued employment)	Sick Leave (120 hours per year, increasing with continued employment)	Longevity Pay	Merit Increases - Full-time employees eligible to receive an annual merit increase of 5% until the position classification’s maximum salary is reached.	Cost-of living adjustments - historical annual COLA increases for 2017-2024 have ranged from 2.5% - 5.0%	There are no Social Security deductions (although a 1.45% deduction for Medicare is required)	Nevada does not have state or local income tax*


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Human Resources evaluates your eligibility for the position by assessing the minimum qualifications based on the experience you describe in your application. A resume cannot be substituted for a complete application, and writing "See Attached Resume" is not acceptable. To be considered, you must thoroughly document your qualifying education and experience in the designated sections of the application, including: the "Education" section; the "Work Experience" section; and the "Certificates and Licenses" section (when applicable). For each job listed, provide a detailed and specific list of duties. These responsibilities will be carefully reviewed to determine whether you meet the minimum requirements of the position. Applicants who do not clearly demonstrate they meet these qualifications or who submit a blank or incomplete application may not be considered for employment. Please certify you have read and understand the above statement.
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Are you a current United States citizen?
        
        
                YES
                NO
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        