=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Departmental Analyst Trainee - P11 - Filing &amp; Canvassing Section
Salary: $50,315.20 - $81,806.40 YEAR
Location: Lansing, MI, MI, 48909
Employer: State of Michigan
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2025-01-27
Job Type: Permanent Full Time
Job Number: 2301-24-BOE021
Department: Department of State
Opening Date: 01/28/2025
Closing Date: 2/9/2025 11:59 PM Eastern
Bargaining Unit: NON-EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTED EMPLOYEE (NERE)

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===




POSITION DUTIES - This position will work to improve integrity and transparency in state government by enforcing the disclosure of finances of candidates and elected officials in state government.  This person will review financial reports that may expose potential conflicts of interests of those serving in positions of authority.  This position serves as the Financial Disclosure Filings Analyst within the Bureau of Elections, Michigan Department of State. The Section is responsible for administering and enforcing the Personal Financial Disclosure Act, Lobbyist Registration Act, and Michigan Election Law. The Analyst will support the Section's functions through research and analysis of disclosure reports, personal finance statements, and lobby expenditure reports, with emphasis on working to address deficiencies and correct noncompliant filings and take enforcement actions when required. This position will also develop and update training materials and user manuals; and providing training to the regulated community.

Position Description - Departmental Analyst 9-P11 (Download PDF reader)

**If this position is filled at the Trainee level, the job duties listed in the position description will be in a learning capacity for a period of time.** 

 
APPOINTMENT TYPE/BENEFITS - This position is Full Time. Therefore, you would be eligible to participate in the benefits offered by the state.


MDOSJOBS

Education
Possession of a bachelor's degree in any major.
 

Experience

Departmental Analyst 9
No specific type or amount is required.

Departmental Analyst 10
One year of professional experience.

Departmental Analyst P11
Two years of professional experience, including one year of experience equivalent to the intermediate (10) level in state service.



Departmental Analyst (Departmental Trainee) 9

Education
Educational level typically acquired through completion of high school.

Experience
Four years of experience as an advanced 9-level worker in an ECP Group One classification. OR
Three years of experience as an E9, E10, or E11-level worker in an ECP Group One classification.
OR
Two years of experience as an experienced level worker in an ECP Group One technician or paraprofessional classification.
OR
Two years of experience as a first-line supervisor in an ECP Group Three classification.
OR
One year of experience as a second-line supervisor in an ECP Group Three classification.

*Paraprofessional classifications are those requiring an associate’s degree or two years of college.

You must apply for this vacancy through the NEOGOV system; click on "Apply" in the job posting for instructions in submitting your electronic application. Your application for any position does not guarantee that you will be contacted by the Department for further consideration. Only those applicants interviewed will be notified of the results.

Civil Service Commission Rule 2-7 requires that all newly hired state employees submit to and pass a pre-employment drug test prior to their actual appointment.  Due to the nature of work of the Department of State, criminal records will be checked.  Any position offer will be conditional until results of the criminal background record checks indicate eligibility for employment.

View the entire job specification at: Departmental Analyst Trainee - P11 



 
 

Accommodations
If you require a reasonable accommodation to participate in the application or selection processes, please contact the ADA coordinator (Download PDF reader) for the agency that posted this position vacancy.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Do you possess one of the following?

A bachelor's degree or higher in any major. If so, please attach a copy of your official college transcripts.

OR 

At least one year of professional experience in the state classified service.

OR

Qualify based on the alternate education and experience for the trainee level listed in the posting.
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Please list all previous names, to include name at birth, and any alias name(s) used. If you do not have any previous/alias names to list, please enter "none".
        
        
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Are you related to anyone working at the Department of State (Secretary of State)?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        If you answered "yes" to question #3, please list the name of each relative. If you answered "no" to question #3, please enter "none"
        
        
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Do you have experience ensuring compliance with laws, regulations, contracts or program requirements?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Please describe your experience ensuring compliance with laws, regulations, contracts or program requirements. If you do not possess this experience, please type "none".
        
        
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Do you have experience working with government officials or legislative staff, the general public or election officials?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Please describe your experience working with government officials or legislative staff, the general public or election officials.  If you do not possess this experience, please type "none".
        
        
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        Please describe a time at work when you identified a need and initiated action to address it on your own. If you do not possess this experience, please enter "none."
        
        
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have with the Michigan Campaign Finance Act, Lobby Registration Act, and Michigan Election Law?
        
        
                None
                Less than 1 year
                1 year - 3 years
                3 years - 5 years
                More than 5 years
        
    


    
        

11

    

    
        Please describe your experience with the Michigan Campaign Finance Act, Lobby Registration Act and Michigan Election Law. If you do not possess this experience, please enter "none".
        
        
        
    


    
        

12

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have researching, writing and editing procedures, manuals and correspondence?
        
        
                None
                Less than 1 year
                1 year - 3 years
                3 years - 5 years
                More than 5 years
        
    


    
        

13

    

    
        Please describe your experience researching, writing and editing procedures, manuals and correspondence. If you do not possess this experience, please enter "none".
        
        
        
    


    
        

14

    

    
        If you qualify for this position by possessing a bachelor's degree, did you remember to upload your official college transcripts to your application?  
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

15

    

    
        Are you a current BOE Employee or Contractor?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

16

    

    
        Please select from the options below: (Please note, actions that have been expunged, formal counseling, and layoff actions need not be reported.) Failure to answer this question honestly may result in being sanctioned from employment with MDOS. Please select all that apply.
        
        
                I have been dismissed within the last two years
                I have resigned in lieu of discipline or dismissal within the last two years
                I have been suspended without pay within the last two years
                I have received an unsatisfactory rating in the last two years
                I have received a written reprimand within the last two years
                I have signed a last chance agreement with MDOS within the last two years
                I certify that none of the above circumstances apply to me
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        