=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Voter Systems Trainer
Salary: $28.22 - $42.33 HOUR
Location: 80120, CO, CO, 80120
Employer: Arapahoe County
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2024-05-05
Job Type: Full-time
Job Number: 05770
Department: Clerk and Recorder's Office
Division: Elections
Opening Date: 05/06/2024
Closing Date: 5/17/2024 11:59 PM Mountain

BENEFITS:
  • Medical, Dental, and Vision Insurance
  • Life and Supplemental Life Insurance
  • Short and Long Term Disability
  • Mandatory Pension Plan
  • Deferred Compensation Plan
  • Pre-paid Legal Services
  • Vacation and Sick Leaves
  • Holiday pay
  • Training and Educational Reimbursement Opportunities

For a more detailed listing of our benefit programs, click on the MENU link on the left and then Benefits Summary.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

The Voter Systems Trainer assists with the training of new and existing Election Division staff within the Clerk and Recorder’s office. This job provides excellent customer service, maintains a positive attitude and is an effective team player while performing a variety of complex duties associated with Arapahoe County’s Election Division and training program.

Assists with developing and implementing a training plan, timeline, and procedures for training and developing Elections full time and part time staff.
Serves as project manager for Agilis ballot sorting technology, mail ballot signature verification and ballot cure process, including training and process development.
Independently provides assistance, guidance, and knowledge transfer to Registration Specialists, Senior Registration Specialists and Lead Registration Specialist.
Serves as a designated Arapahoe County Tester for User Acceptance Trainings (UAT) and mock elections as designated by the Secretary of State.
Provides written and verbal feedback while testing processes to Voter Service Manager or other partners involved in testing role.
Attend calls and meetings with other State and County testers and collaborates with other partners to review system changes for potential impacts or review potential fixes to system issues to verify solutions are viable.
Conducts research, identifies and resolves complex registration and database issues to improve system functionality and understanding among the election staff.
Independently researches complex issues faced by election staff to analyze, determine, and propose solutions to process or system issues.
May be asked to perform training related to the following departments: employee development, leadership development, election related duties, and special projects.
Skills, Abilities and Competencies:
Organized - Can marshal resources (people, funding, material, and support) to get things done
Service First - Improve customer experience; enhance quality of life; improve trust in government
Teamwork - Cooperates with others to achieve goals and overall work objectives
Communication - Expresses clearly and effectively when speaking/writing to individuals or groups
Presentation - Effective in a variety of formal presentation settings: one-on-one, small and large groups

Behavioral Competencies:
Accountability 
Inclusivity 
Accessibility 
Integrity

Education and Experience:

Any equivalent combination of education and work experience that satisfy the requirements of the job;
At least 3 years of relevant training, documenting and presenting training experience, Or
A bachelor’s degree in Public Administration, Organizational Leadership or related field

Preferred Experience:
Any Continued Education and/or relevant Certifications.
Bilingual and/or American Sign Language
At least 5 years of Election training experience
Previous experience auditing processes and/or paperwork for accuracy and completeness.
Previous experience analyzing processes and/or system data, to include system testing.



Pre-Employment Additional Requirements:

Must successfully pass pre-employment testing which includes an acceptable motor vehicle record (MVR) and background check.
Security clearance required: will require fingerprinting and a Colorado Bureau of Investigation (CBI) background check

Post-Employment Requirements:
Active participation in the Colorado County Clerk Association
Must be able to work nights and weekends based on business need
Work locations and facilities are subject to change based on business need

WORK ENVIRONMENT:
Work is generally confined to a standard office environment.
Hybrid work opportunities available per approval.

PHYSICAL DEMANDS:
The following are some of the physical demands commonly associated with this position.
Spends 70% of the time sitting and 30% of the time either upright or walking.
Occasionally lifts, carries, pulls or pushes up to 20 lbs.
Occasionally uses cart, dolly, or other equipment to carry in excess of 25 lbs.
Occasionally climbs, stoops, kneels, balances, reaches, crawls and crouches while performing office or work duties.
Verbal and auditory capacity enabling constant interpersonal communication through automated devices, such as telephones, radios, and similar; and in public meetings and personal interactions.
Constant use of eye, hand and finger coordination enabling the use of automated office machinery or equipment.
Visual capacity enabling constant use of computer or other work- related equipment.

Below, please list any special physical demands associated with this position. For instance, exposure to hazardous environments, blood borne pathogens, extreme heat/cold, use of power equipment or machinery, wearing of PPE (personal protective equipment).

Definitions:
Occasionally: Activity exists less than 1/3 of the time. 
Frequently: Activity exists between 1/3 and 2/3 of the time. 
Constantly: Activity exists more than 2/3 of the time.

Toll Free Applicant Technical Support:  If you experience technical difficulty with the NEOGOV system (i.e. uploading or attaching documents to your online application), call NEOGOV technical support at 855-524-5627.  Helpful hints: if you are having difficulty uploading or attaching documents to your application, first, ensure your documents are PDF or Microsoft Word files, and second, close the document before you attempt uploading (attaching) it.



 

* Arapahoe County does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, disability, genetic information, sexual orientation or any other status protected under the law. It is our intention that all qualified applicants be given equal opportunity in any term, condition, or privilege of employment and that selection decisions are based on job-related factors. Arapahoe County is committed to making employment accessible to persons with disabilities.

** In accordance with Senate Bill 23-058, applicants understand that Arapahoe County will not request or require the applicant to include their age, date of birth, or date of attendance/graduation date on the initial application. Applicants understand that Arapahoe County can request or require an individual to provide documentation including copies of certification, transcripts, and other materials created by a third party. The applicant understands that the applicant can redact, if they so choose, information that identifies age, date of birth, or dates of attendance/graduation from an educational institution on those requested/required certification, transcripts and other materials created by a third party. 

Toll Free Applicant Technical Support:  If you experience technical difficulty with the NEOGOV system (i.e. uploading or attaching documents to your online application), call NEOGOV technical support at 855-524-5627.  Helpful hints: if you are having difficulty uploading or attaching documents to your application, first, ensure your documents are PDF or Microsoft Word files, and second, close the document before you attempt uploading (attaching) it. 

As a Regular Full-Time employee at Arapahoe County Government, you are eligible for benefits such as:	Medical, Dental, and Vision Insurance	Life and Supplemental Life Insurance	Short and Long Term Disability	Mandatory Pension Plan	Deferred Compensation Plan	Pre-paid Legal Services	Vacation and Sick Leaves	Holiday pay	Training and Educational Reimbursement OpportunitiesFor a more detailed listing of our benefit programs, click on the MENU link on the left and then Benefits Summary.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Please choose the response that best describes your educational background.
        
        
                High School Graduate or GED
                Associate Degree
                Bachelor's Degree
                Bachelor's Degree in Public Administration, Organizational Leadership or related field
                Master's Degree
                Master's Degree in Accounting, Finance, Economics, Business, Construction Management or related field
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Please choose the answer that best describes your years of relevant training, documenting and presenting training experience.
        
        
                No Experience
                Less than 1 year of experience
                1 year to less than 2 years of experience
                2 years to less than 3 years of experience
                3 years to less than 4 years of experience
                4 years to less than 5 years of experience
                5 years to less than 6 years of experience
                6 years to less than 7 years of experience
                7 or more years of experience
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Please describe your relevant training, documenting and presenting training experience.
        
        
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Please choose the answer that best describes your years of Election training experience.
        
        
                No Experience
                Less than 1 year of experience
                1 year to less than 2 years of experience
                2 years to less than 3 years of experience
                3 years to less than 4 years of experience
                4 years to less than 5 years of experience
                5 or more years of experience
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Do you possess bilingual Spanish language skills?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Do you possess American Sign Language skills?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Do you have a current, valid driver's license?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Have you received eight or more points within the past twelve months or twelve or more points within the past twenty-four months against your driving record?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        How many moving traffic violations have you been cited for in the past two years?
        
        
                Less than 3 violations
                3 or 4 violations
                5 or more violations
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        In the past three years, have you had your driver's license revoked or suspended?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        