=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Voting Equipment Assistant Manager (Administrative Assistant IV)
Salary: $48,617.09 - $81,028.48 YEAR
Location: FAIRFAX (EJ32), VA, VA, 22035
Employer: Fairfax County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2024-05-03
Job Type: FT Hourly W BN
Job Number: 24-01117
Department: Office of Elections
Opening Date: 05/04/2024
Closing Date: 5/17/2024 11:59 PM Eastern
Pay Grade: S17
Posting Type: Open to General Public

BENEFITS:
  • Medical/Vision/Dental Insurance Coverage
  • Group Term Life Insurance
  • Long Term Disability
  • LiveWell Program
  • Flexible Spending Programs
  • Paid Leave (annual, sick, parental, volunteer activity, and more!)
  • Paid Holidays
  • Contributory Retirement Plan
  • Deferred Compensation
  • Employee Assistance Program
  • Employees' Child Care Center
  • Commuter Benefit Program
  • Continuous Learning Opportunities

NOTE:  Fairfax County Government is a qualifying employer under the Public Service Loan Forgiveness program. For more information about the PSLF program: https://studentaid.gov/manage-loans/forgiveness-cancellation/public-service
For additional details please visit the County's benefits webpage.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Serves as the assistant manager for all voting equipment management and logistics in Fairfax County, the largest voting jurisdiction in Virginia and one of the 30 largest voting jurisdictions in the United States. Under the supervision of the Voting Equipment and Logistics Manager, plays a pivotal role in ensuring the testing, maintenance, security, and delivery of more than 1,300 ballot scanners and ballot marking devices for use at 281 early voting and election day polling places. The assistant manager is required to travel to different work locations using their own form of transportation.

The ideal candidate will bring a blend of administrative acumen, logistics experience, and an understanding of general election procedures. You will work with a team of more than 50 voting equipment technicians at our office and at our warehouse to maintain and calibrate voting equipment, manage inventory, and coordinate the deployment and storage of equipment. You will be very involved in per-election Logic and Accuracy testing and repairs, developing security plans, and keeping detailed records of all maintenance and operations activities.

This opportunity is perfect for an individual who thrives in a fast-paced, dynamic work environment and is dedicated to upholding the integrity and smooth operation of the voting process in Virginia. With your commitment, expertise, and diligent work, you will become an indispensable member of our Voting Equipment and Logistics division, contributing significantly to the democratic process and making a positive impact in the community.

Job responsibilities include:

Work regularly at both our main office and at our warehouse.
Assist in managing, inspecting, testing, and repairing county voting equipment.
Help develop and maintain security and logistical plans for the movement and storage of voting equipment.
Serve as a point-of-contact with voting system vendors and other Fairfax County agencies.
 Help supervise seasonal employees involved in programming, testing, and repairing equipment.
Keep detailed records of equipment inspections, maintenance, and repairs.
Use election software to analyze data and generate reports.
Ensure the timely delivery and return of voting equipment and supplies from all polling places.
Develop procedures to efficiently handle election night logistics and recover unreturned items.
Prepare essential forms, signs, general supplies, and other materials.
Use Airtable database software to help manage, monitor, and evaluate all aspects of voting equipment operations.
Maintain a thorough understanding of voting system infrastructure and election-specific computer systems and equipment.
As a member of the Office of Elections staff, participates in other activities related to election administration and voter registration on an as-needed basis. A flexible schedule is required before, during, and immediately after election day. Must be able to regularly work some mornings beginning at 7:00 AM and the weekends immediately before and after each election. Work-from-home may be available for up to 2 days per week during non-election periods, but all work is in-person during at least the 60 days before each election.

Note: The assigned functional areas for this position include general administrative assistance, elections administration or operations, and/or logistics (scheduling and coordinating).

MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:
Any combination of education, experience, and training equivalent to the following:  
(Click on the aforementioned link to learn how Fairfax County interprets equivalencies for "Any combination, experience, and training equivalent to")  

Any combination of education, experience and training equivalent to high school graduation and three years of experience providing administrative support in the assigned functional area(s).

CERTIFICATES AND LICENSES REQUIRED:

Must be a registered voter in the state of Virginia or be able to become one within 30 days of employment.
NECESSARY SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS:
The appointee to this position will be required to complete a criminal background check to the satisfaction of the employer. Able and willing to work overtime during 30-day period before election day.

PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS:
Experience in an election office and with the election process.
Experience managing voting equipment or working in a voting equipment warehouse.
Experience working in a state or county elections office.
Experience as an election officer (poll worker) at a polling place.
Experience in supervising and managing temporary staff or poll workers.
Experience coordinating deliveries to places.
Excellent organizational and coordination skills.
Proficiency in Microsoft Excel and Word.
Ability to develop strategic and contingency plans.
PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS:
Some office work is required and is generally sedentary; however, the position requires one to have the ability to assemble and repair electronic voting equipment, lift and carry equipment up to 50 pounds, walk stand, stoop, and kneel in a warehouse work environment. Visual acuity to read and manipulate data on computer monitor, ability to communicate in person and on the phone and also includes time at community and individual meetings. Will need mobility and ability to carry items between 270 polling sites and between the main office, warehouse and courthouse. All duties performed with or without reasonable accommodations.

SELECTION PROCEDURE:
Panel interview and may include exercise.

The population of Fairfax County is very diverse where 38.7% of residents speak a language other than English at home (Spanish, Asian/Pacific Islander, Indo-European, and others) and we encourage candidates bilingual in English and a foreign language to apply to this opportunity.

Fairfax County Government prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, pregnancy, childbirth or related medical conditions, age, marital status, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetics, political affiliation, or military status in the recruitment, selection, and hiring of its workforce.

Reasonable accommodations are available to persons with disabilities during application and/or interview processes per the Americans with Disabilities Act. Contact 703-324-4900 for assistance. TTY 703-222-7314. DHREmployment@fairfaxcounty.gov EEO/AA/TTY.

#LI-JY1