=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Departmental Technician 10 - Bureau of Elections Help Desk
Salary: $50,980.80 - $68,390.40 YEAR
Location: Lansing, MI, MI, 48909
Employer: State of Michigan
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2023-12-11
Job Type: Permanent Full Time
Job Number: 2301-23-BOE011
Department: Department of State
Opening Date: 12/12/2023
Closing Date: 12/28/2023 11:59 PM Eastern
Bargaining Unit: UNITED AUTO WORKERS (UAW)

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===


This position serves as the lead departmental technician in the Bureau of Elections help desk that serves as a help desk customer service representative, providing procedural information about campaign finance, disclosure, notarial acts and election law to candidates, committees, election administrators, notary providers and to the general public. This incumbent will be responsible for tier 1 support and triage for inbound calls and communication to the Bureau of Elections to either resolve or route to the appropriate advanced level support. The incumbent provides additional support for bureau wide project activities and initiatives. Incumbent coordinates the staff that provides coverage for the Bureau of Elections front desk that support in person appointments or customer questions. Incumbent is lead worker and provides process
improvements for work processes and call flows.


Departmental Technician 10 Position Description (Download PDF reader)


MDOSJOBS

Education

Education typically acquired through completion of high school.

Experience 
Two years of experience as a supervisor of administrative support activities equivalent to the 9-level in state service.
OR
Two years of experience performing administrative support activities equivalent to the 9-level in state service.
OR
Three years of experience as a technician or paraprofessional, including one year of experience equivalent to the experienced level in state service.




Alternate Education and Experience
Departmental Technician 10 Possession of a Bachelor’s degree and one year of professional experience may be substituted for the experience requirement.

Accommodations
If you require a reasonable accommodation to participate in the application or selection processes, please contact the ADA coordinator (Download PDF reader) for the agency that posted this position vacancy.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Are you related to anyone working at the Department of State (Secretary of State)?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        If you answered "Yes" to question #1, please list the name of each relative. If you answered "no" to question #1, please enter "None."
        
        
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Please list all previous names, to include name at birth, and any alias name(s) used. If you do not have any previous/alias names to list, please enter "none"
        
        
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        DPTLTCH – Do you possess at least an educational level typically acquired through the completion of high school?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        DPTLTCHA – Do you possess one of the following?

At least three years of experience as a technician or paraprofessional, including one year of experience equivalent to the experienced level in state service 
OR 
two years of experience as a supervisor of administrative support activities equivalent to the 9-level in state service 
OR
two years of experience performing administrative support activities equivalent to the 9-level in state service.
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have working in a customer contact center?
        
        
                None
                Less than 1 year
                1 to 2 years
                More than 2 years
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have working with computer-based software to answer, log and track calls?
        
        
                None
                Less than 1 year
                1 to 2 years
                More than 2 years
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have navigating between different programs or applications (such as Microsoft Office and/or automated systems) and obtaining and processing the necessary information?
        
        
                None
                Less than 1 year
                1 to 2 years
                More than 2 years
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        If you have experience navigating between different programs or applications, please describe your experience here to allow for accurate screening. If you do not have this experience, please enter "None".
        
        
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        This position routinely involves adversarial interactions with general public, other agencies or internal staff. Explain your experience and/or involvement with situations that demonstrated your ability to diplomatically handle conflict situations. If you do not have this experience, please enter "None".
        
        
        
    


    
        

11

    

    
        Please select from the options below: (Please note, actions that have been expunged, formal counseling, and layoff actions need not be reported.) Failure to answer this question honestly may result in being sanctioned from employment with MDOS. Please select all that apply.
        
        
                I have been dismissed within the last two years
                I have resigned in lieu of discipline or dismissal within the last two years
                I have been suspended without pay within the last two years
                I have received an unsatisfactory rating in the last two years
                I have received a written reprimand within the last two years
                I have signed a last chance agreement with MDOS within the last two years
                I certify that none of the above circumstances apply to me
        
    


    
        

12

    

    
        Are you a current Bureau of Elections employee or contractor?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        