=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Election Training and Operations Manager (Management Analyst II)
Salary: $66,103.86 - $110,173.86 YEAR
Location: FAIRFAX (EJ32), VA, VA, 22035
Employer: Fairfax County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2023-12-01
Job Type: FT Salary W BN
Job Number: 23-03414
Department: Office of Elections
Opening Date: 12/02/2023
Closing Date: 12/15/2023 11:59 PM Eastern
Pay Grade: S24
Posting Type: Open to General Public

BENEFITS:
  • Medical/Vision/Dental Insurance Coverage
  • Group Term Life Insurance
  • Long Term Disability
  • LiveWell Program
  • Flexible Spending Programs
  • Paid Leave (annual, sick, parental, volunteer activity, and more!)
  • Paid Holidays
  • Contributory Retirement Plan
  • Deferred Compensation
  • Employee Assistance Program
  • Employees' Child Care Center
  • Commuter Benefit Program
  • Continuous Learning Opportunities

NOTE:  Fairfax County Government is a qualifying employer under the Public Service Loan Forgiveness program. For more information about the PSLF program: https://studentaid.gov/manage-loans/forgiveness-cancellation/public-service
For additional details please visit the County's benefits webpage.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Manages, designs, and implements election training and operational programs. Position requires an equal focus on three core areas: developing innovative online training modules, managing in-person training classes, and utilizing software and technology skills to enhance operational activities.

Under supervision of the election manager, manages a team of up to 18 seasonal staff and coordinates closely with other teams within the Election Administration division. Ideal candidate will have strong technical skills, experience designing engaging training modules or other content, and an interest in making continuous improvements to the election process.

Manages a team of 2-3 seasonal office staff to help manage operational activities.
Manages a team of 15 seasonal staff as training facilitators for in-person classes.
Ensures all individuals are adequately trained on voting equipment and all election procedures as determined by Virginia election laws.
Leverages strong technology skills to help improve election processes and operational activities.
Helps manage and configure election databases used by election administration staff.
Develops and updates on-demand online training (e.g., using Articulate 360, pre-recorded training videos, or other tools) for approximately 5,000 current election officers who must be recertified every two years.
Plans and manages live online classes (e.g., using Zoom or Microsoft Teams) for 250 early voting staff, 50 voting equipment technicians, and other election administration staff each election.
Plans and manages in-person training classes for approximately 500 new election officers each year.
Develops online training modules, slideshows, quizzes, webpages, and other interactive materials.
Films and edits basic videos for use in training modules.
Proactively researches and utilizes innovative new technologies to make training better or more efficient, such as generative AI image or audio tools.
Creates and organizes supplemental training materials and handouts.
Identifies and secures appropriate space to facilitate on-site and off-site classroom courses and coordinates the movement and security of training equipment between venues.
Travels to training locations, voting equipment warehouse, or polling places as needed.
Proactively assesses the efficacy of training programs and pursues continual improvements.
Routinely creates and shares reports, tracking progress.
Helps manage and support other operational activities for the conduct of each election.
Helps identify and implement potential improvements to elections operational activities.
Manages and supports shared technology resources used by election administration division.
Works closely with other election administration staff on election activities before, during, and after each election season.
Continually reviews internal and external processes related to the administration of election activities to suggest opportunities for increased efficiency.

As a member of the Office of Elections staff, participates in other activities related to election administration and voter registration on an as-needed basis.

A flexible schedule is required before, during, and immediately after election day, to include working extended hours during evening classes and to support special projects or address issues as they arise. Must be able to work some evenings and weekends during the 6 weeks before each election. Must be a registered voter in the state of Virginia or able to become one within 30 days of employment. Telework is available up to 2 days per week, except during a 90-day period for each major election (there are 2 major elections in June and November every year; there are 3 major elections in March, June, and November in presidential election years).

Note: Salary will not exceed the midpoint of the advertised salary range ($88,138.96). 

The assigned functional areas of the position are election administration, public administration, training/information management, operations management, information technology, and/or elections support. 

MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:
Any combination of education, experience, and training equivalent to the following: 

(Click on the aforementioned link to learn how Fairfax County interprets equivalencies for "Any combination, experience, and training equivalent to")

Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university with a bachelor's degree in the field related to the assigned functional area; plus two years of professional work experience within the functional area.


CERTIFICATES AND LICENSES REQUIRED:
Registered voter or ability to become a registered voter in the Commonwealth of Virginia (within 30 days of employment).

NECESSARY SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS:
The appointee to this position will be required to complete a criminal background check to the satisfaction of the employer.

Additional Work Schedule Requirements: Required to work extra hours during the week and on the weekend at times throughout the year based on elections cycle or elections operations workload.

This position is emergency/essential services personnel. (Required to report for duty during inclement weather and/or other emergencies.)    

PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS:
Experience in an elections office and with the elections process
Experience as an election officer (poll worker) in a polling place
Experience developing, delivering, and managing training programs
Supervisory experience
Experience using Airtable or other database software to maintain individual records
Excellent organizational and coordination skills
Excellent Microsoft Office skills (Word, Excel) to develop reports and spreadsheets
Excellent technical skills to use and implement new software solutions
Ability to develop strategic and contingency plans for training activities
Ability to work extensive overtime during each election 

PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS: 
Work is generally sedentary, performed in a normal office environment with occasional travel possible. Ability to sit, stand, and walk as needed to perform core job functions. Ability to lift up to 25 pounds. Ability to work with both electronic and paper filing systems. Ability to use laptops and other electronic devices. All duties performed with or without reasonable accommodations.

SELECTION PROCEDURE: 
Panel Interview and may include a practical exercise.
 
The population of Fairfax County is very diverse where 39.8% of residents speak a language other than English at home (Spanish, Asian/Pacific Islander, Indo-European, and others) and we encourage candidates bilingual in English and a foreign language to apply to this opportunity
 
Fairfax County Government prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, pregnancy, childbirth or related medical conditions, age, marital status, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetics, political affiliation, or military status in the recruitment, selection, and hiring of its workforce.  
 
Reasonable accommodations are available to persons with disabilities during application and/or interview processes per the Americans with Disabilities Act. Contact 703-324-4900 for assistance. TTY 703-222-7314. DHREmployment@fairfaxcounty.gov EEO/AA/TTY.

#LI-LD1