=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Salary: $133,919.00 - $150,930.00 YEAR
Location: RI   02921, RI, RI, 02908
Employer: State of Rhode Island
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2023-11-16
Job Type: Non-Union (99)
Job Number: 2890-10000-444
Department: BOARD OF ELECTIONS
Division: Central Management
Opening Date: 11/17/2023
Closing Date: 12/17/2023 11:59 PM Eastern
Pay Grade: 0844A
Classification: Unclassified
Scheduled Work Days; Hours of Work: Monday - Friday, 8:00 am to 4:00 pm
Work Week: Non-Standard
Bargaining Union: Non-Union (99)

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===


Experience:  Such as may have been gained through:  employment in management or supervisory position with practical work experience in areas of voter registration, conduct of elections, conduct of post-election audits, state and federal election laws, campaign finance, interfacing with local, state and federal agencies, drafting  legislation, cyber security involving elections, preparing, administering and implementing an agency budget, communication skills or other management experience deemed appropriate by the Board.  Five years experience in conducting state and local elections applying federal, state and local election laws and regulations from a managerial level.  These elections must include, one Gubernatorial and Presidential election.   Four years of supervisory or managerial experience of a staff.

Education:  The Executive Director must possess a college degree . A current Certified Elections/Registration Administrator Certificate is preferred.

GENERAL STATEMENT OF DUTIES/RESPONSIBILITIES:

Senior management executive responsible for overall administration/operation of the entire  agency and staff.  

 

Executive Director will execute policies and directives established by the Board; develop and implement agency’s strategic plan.  Duties include, but are not limited to, preparation and administration of the agency’s budget, personnel administration, labor relations, drafting legislation, legislative lobbying;   planning, organizing and administering election and campaign finance laws;  management of the state assets (building, equipment & vehicles).  

 

Coordination of agency media relations and public information campaigns through national and local media outlets and social media platforms.

 

Responsible for cybersecurity by attending and engaging in increased training and seminars for elections.

 

Working knowledge of RI General election laws, Rules & Regulations promulgated by the Board of Elections and of procedures and practices in administering elections.

 

Working knowledge of current and proposed federal election law and court decisions to inform the Board of the need to modify existing state law and rules and regulations.

 

Ability to testify in legislative hearings and judicial proceedings.

 

Prepares and submits to the Commissioners recommendations relative to all matters requiring Board action, placing before the Board all information, facts and reports necessary to ensure the making of informed decisions.

 

 Advises the Board on the need for new or revised policies.  

 

Participate and oversee the planning, organizing and administering the conduct of elections, enforcement of campaign finance reporting requirements, calculation and awarding of the matching funds program, assist local canvassing authorities, elected officials, candidates and general public in election-related matters.

 

Serve as the Board liaison to local, state and federal agencies as well as public and private organizations.

 

Serves as agency’s representative on various boards; oversees and updates voter registration, campaign finance, oversees the conducting of voter registration drives in RI High Schools with the assistance of local Board of Canvassers, and oversees the developments of instructional programs and materials.  

 

 Prepares and reviews agenda for Board meetings, attends all Board meetings, including executive session’s when requested.

 

Assisting and overseeing staff in the preparation, development and production of writing rules & regulations, directives, manuals, booklets, informational and educational material relating to election and campaign finance publications and procedures.

 

Preparation of RFP and review, rating of bids for election equipment, technical and consulting services.

 

Maintain, educate and implement digital scan voting equipment, accessible voting equipment ballot – on demand printers, ES&S DS200’s Poll Place Precinct Scanners & Tabulators, e-pollbooks statewide, logic and accuracy testing, tabulators and  interfacing with the thirty-nine municipalities, the RI Department of State and other state agencies.

 

Oversee the processing, certification, and tabulation of high volume mail ballots as well as the conduct of early voting, recounts and post-election Risk Limiting Audits with increased security.   

 

Achieve agency goals and objectives established by the Board.

 

A motivator who can effectively communicate and who can interact, motivate and work with individuals and groups.

 

Ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships with local BOC, SOS, NGOs and interested parties.

REPORTS TO:  COMMISSIONERS OF THE BOARD OF ELECTIONS

JOB GOALS:  Provide strong leadership, communication and knowledge in developing and maintaining the programs and services to protect the integrity of the electoral process and efficiently administer the provisions of the election laws.

This position is in the Unclassified Branch as specified by Rhode Island State Law.

Any individual with a disability who requires assistance to effectively participate in the application process should contact the Board of Elections at 222-2345 prior to the close of the application period.

AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY/AFFIRMATIVE ACTION EMPLOYER M/F/D/V





