ELECTION SUPERVISOR I
Recruitment #19-001484-0002
| Department | SBE General Administration |
|---|---|
| Date Opened | 10/16/2019 11:00:00 AM |
| Filing Deadline | 10/30/2019 11:59:00 PM |
| Salary | $32,176.00 - $50,377.00/year |
| Employment Type |
Full-Time
|
| HR Analyst | Christina Lohr |
| Work Location |
Frederick
|
GRADE
9990
LOCATION OF POSITION
Frederick County Board of Elections
340A Montevue Lane
Frederick, MD 21702
Main Purpose of Job
Under the direction of the Director/Deputy Director, the primary responsibility of the Election Supervisor is to recruit and train election judges, supervise the office staff, coordinate the process of voter registration, prepare special projects, and assist the Director/Deputy Director in any other tasks necessary for the operations of the local board of elections.
POSITION DUTIES
Supervises Election Clerks and other support staff engaged in processing and maintaining voter records and applying election laws, rules, and procedures to work problems. Â Trains employees and volunteers in election procedures such as registering voters. Â Trains Election Clerks and other support staff in the full range of specialized clerical work in a local office. Â Registers voters at local office and outside facilities, completes registration forms and assigns voter district and precinct. Â Processes absentee ballot applications, issues ballots to qualified voters, receives completed ballots and secures ballots. Â Compiles and maintains statistics. Â Answers inquiries regarding election procedures in person, by telephone, by U.S. mail and by electronic mail. Â Assists the Election Director or the Election Deputy Director or other designated supervisor in reprecincting by obtaining census information, researching appropriate boundary lines and markers, and checking and recommending potential polling locations. Â Uses knowledge of the Election Law Article of the Annotated Code of Maryland, the Code of Maryland Regulations and the Federal Voting Assistance Program to implement, manage and revise all phases of absentee voting policies and procedures. Â Recruits election officials needed to staff polling places, organizes required training sessions, and implements and revises policies and procedures related to judge recruitment. Â Accepts and processes candidate and committee filings. Â Coordinates census activities in conjunction with the Maryland Office of Planning in order to define boundaries for redistricting and reprecincting and to assure an accurate street database. Â Oversees the implementation and maintenance of polling place accessibility in accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and State policies and guidelines. Â Maintains current knowledge of the National Voter Registration Act and all related regulations for the purpose of managing all phases of the Act, including the category of inactive voters.Â May supervise electronic technicians engaged in maintaining and repairing electronic voting machines. Â May prepare election calendar. Â May coordinate the ordering, proofreading, counting and dissemination of appropriate forms. Â May purchase and inventory supplies. Â May supervise a specialized unit in a large office or supervise employees engaged in the full range of Election Clerk duties in a smaller office.m Performs other duties as required.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS
Education: Graduation from an accredited high school or possession of a high school equivalency certificate.
Experience: Two years experience applying election laws, rules and procedures in a local election office.
Notes:
1. Specialized clerical experience may substitute for the required experience applying election laws, rules and procedures in a local election office at the rate of one year for each six months of the required election office experience. Specialized clerical experience is defined as work in an office which requires reviewing, verifying and interpreting information in order to make determinations and resolve work problems in accordance with policies, regulations, guidelines and procedures.
2. General clerical experience may substitute for the required experience applying election laws, rules and procedures in a local election office at the rate of two years for each six months of the required election office experience. General clerical experience is defined as work performing a variety of clerical duties which are clear-cut and typically found in office settings, such as filing, copying, posting data and directing telephone calls.
3. College courses from an accredited college or university may be substituted for up to two years of the required experience at the rate of 30 credit hours for one year of experience.
4. Additional experience applying election laws, rules and procedures in a local election office may be substituted for the required education on a year-for-year basis.
DESIRED OR PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS
-Experience hiring and training election judges.
-Experience with voter outreach.
Â -Experience with data entry.
Â -Experience with customer service in a fast paced environment.
-Experience working with deadlines.
-Experience supervising.
SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS
1. Employees in this classification are required to be registered voters in the State of Maryland in accordance with the Election Law Article, Section 2-207(d).
2. Employees in this classification may not hold or be a candidate for any elective public or political party office or any other office created under the Constitution or laws of this State in accordance with the Election Law Article, Section 2-301(b).
SELECTION PROCESS
Please make sure that you provide sufficient information on your application to show that you meet the qualifications for this recruitment. All information concerning your qualifications must be submitted by the closing date.Â We will not consider information submitted after this date.Â Successful candidates will be ranked as Best Qualified, Better Qualified, or Qualified and placed on theÂ eligible (employment) list for at least one year.
Applicants must meet all minimum (and selective) qualifications to be considered, and to appear on the list of people eligible for hire. Please read all requirements before applying.
EXAMINATION PROCESS
The assessment may consist of a rating of your education, training, and experience related to the requirements of the position.Â It is important that you provide complete and accurate information on your application.Â Please report all experience and education that is related to this position.
BENEFITS
FURTHER INSTRUCTIONS
The online application process is STRONGLY preferred.Â If you are unable to apply online, you may mail a paper application and supplemental questionnaire to:Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â
Board of Elections
Attn: Recruitment
151 West St.
Suite 200
Annapolis, MD 21401
If additional information is required, the preferred method is to upload.Â If you are unable to upload, please fax the requested informationÂ to 410-974-5126.Â Only additional materials that are required will be accepted for this recruitment. All additional information must be received by the closing date and time.
For questions regarding this recruitment, please contact theÂ SBE Recruitment and Selection Division at 410-269-2859.
Appropriate accommodations for individuals with disabilities are available upon request by calling: 410-269-2859 or MD TTY Relay Service 1-800-735-2258.
If you are having difficulty with your user account or have general questions about the online application system, please contact the MD Department of Budget and Management, Recruitment and Examination Division at 410-767-4850 orÂ Application.Help@maryland.gov.Â
As an equal opportunity employer, Maryland is committed to recruiting, retaining and promoting employees who are reflective of the Stateâs diversity. People with disabilities and bilingual candidates are encouraged to apply.Â We thank our Veterans for their service to our country.