=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Public Records Officer &amp; Project Manager
Salary: $42.94 - $54.43 HOUR
Location: WA 98057-2906, WA, WA, 98104
Employer: King County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2024-08-05
Job Type: Career Service, Full Time, 40 hrs/week
Job Number: 2024RL22478
Department: KCE - King County Elections
Division: Election Services
Opening Date: 08/05/2024
Closing Date: 8/26/2024 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Non-Exempt
Bargaining Unit: Z3 : KC Personnel Guidelines
Full- or Part-Time: Full Time
Hours/Week: 40 hours/week

BENEFITS:
  • Excellent medical, dental, and vision coverage options: King County provides eligible employees with options, so they can decide what’s best for themselves and their eligible dependents
  • Life and disability insurance: employees are provided basic coverage and given the opportunity to purchase additional insurance for both the employee and eligible dependents
  • Retirement: eligible King County employees may participate in a pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems and a 457(b) deferred-compensation plan
  • Transportation program and ORCA transit pass
  • 12 paid holidays each year plus two personal holidays
  • Generous vacation and paid sick leave
  • Paid parental, family and medical, and volunteer leaves
  • Flexible Spending Account
  • Wellness programs
  • Onsite activity centers
  • Employee Giving Program
  • Employee assistance programs
  • Flexible schedules and telecommuting options, depending on position
  • Training and career development programs

For additional information about employee benefits, visit our
Benefits, Payroll, and Retirement Page
.
This is a general description of the benefits offered to eligible King County employees, and every effort has been made to ensure its accuracy.  If any information on this document conflicts with the provisions of a collective bargaining agreement (CBA), the CBA prevails.
NOTE:
Benefits for Term Limited Temporary (TLT) or Short Term Temporary (STT) positions, including leave eligibility and/or participation in the pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems, will vary based upon the terms and details of the position. Short Term Temporary positions are not eligible for an ORCA transit pass.
For inquiries about the specifics of this position, please contact the recruiter identified on this job posting.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

This is an amazing opportunity to be engaged in the election process!

The Department of Elections is searching for an energetic and resourceful professional who likes to get stuff done. The Elections Public Records Officer & Project Manager in the Elections Department combines an exciting environment with the opportunity to cultivate talents and apply a variety of skills. The ideal candidate will thrive in an innovative, fast-paced environment and will not hesitate to roll up both sleeves, work hard, have fun, and get the job done.
 
ABOUT THE POSITION:
This position will provide coordination within Elections for ensuring the utmost diligence and attention is paid to coordinating and managing public records requests and gathering of records. This position will also manage and implement various projects within Elections.
 
WHO WE ARE:  King County Elections (KCE) manages voter registrations and elections for approximately 1.4 million voters in King County, one of the largest vote-by-mail counties in the United States. KCE's mission is to conduct accessible, secure, and accurate elections. As a leader in providing inclusive elections, KCE is focused on core values of accuracy, equity, integrity, service, teamwork, and transparency. The team at KCE is committed to ensuring all King County voters can get registered, cast their ballot, and make their voices heard. Learn more at www.kingcounty.gov/elections.aspx.
 
WHO MAY APPLY:  This position is open to the general public and all King County employees.
 
MATERIALS REQUIRED TO APPLY: Applicants must submit a (1) King County Application, (2) Resume, and (3) Letter of Interest. The letter of interest should describe how your skills and experience meet the qualifications and have prepared you to perform the essential functions of the job. Applications without the required materials may not be considered for this position.

WORK SCHEDULE:  The standard workweek for this position is Monday through Friday, 40 hours per week.  We require the flexibility to work additional hours during peak periods of the election cycle. This position is subject to the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) and is overtime eligible.
 
WORK LOCATION: The work site for this position is the Elections Building located at 919 SW Grady Way in Renton. The work associated with this position will be performed through a combination of teleworking complemented with onsite work and meetings as needed.

King County Elections believes in working in a very agile working environment. Creating a team that delivers now and in the future is very important. There may be various job duties that you could be assigned to including:

Public Records Requests


Manage and implement project plans for public records requests. 
Receive and review public records requests. Conduct records searches and review for applicable exemptions. Conduct custodian interviews, provide instructions to custodian or agency representatives on how to search and gather records, and apply common redactions and segregating records that need a higher level of review by other staff or attorneys.
Organize, establish and maintain data sources and tracking tools related to public records requests to ensure responses and follow up comply with timeframes as stipulated in policies.
Determine applicability of public records policies and rules (both court and state).
Determine search terms and potential sources for specific requests; provide instructions/direction to administrative staff for records searches/log maintenance.
Be the main point of contact/troubleshooter for the department on GovQA (county public records requests program).
Evaluate and recommend enhancements, improvements and/or changes to program administration, policies, and procedures.
Records Management

Lead the department’s records management committee.
Be the main point of contact/troubleshoot for department on records management and the County records management system.
Represent the department at County records management meetings.
Evaluate and recommend enhancements, improvements and/or changes to program administration, policies, and procedures.
Project Management

Provide project management and oversight of various projects within Elections. 
Perform program and project development tasks on an independent basis with minimal direction and guidance.
Gather and analyze data.
Write reports or issue papers summarizing analysis or research.

Knowledge of the Washington State Public Records Act and statutes, court rules, court procedures, processes, and policies related to public records requests.
Experience with public disclosure.
Demonstrated skill creating, manipulating and analyzing data.  Experience with Excel or other database software or tracking tools.
Knowledge of tracking systems, data collection and project management principles and techniques.
Demonstrated ability to multi-task and work efficiently in a fast-paced environment with short turn-around timelines.
Highly developed organizational skills with strong attention to detail and thoroughness.
Demonstrated skills in gathering, manipulating and using data utilizing a computer and other tools.
Demonstrated skill in working effectively as a team member and with diverse staff across the agency to coordinate accomplishment of specific tasks.
Demonstrated ability to navigate through the policies, procedures, and the culture of an organization in order to get the work done.
Highly effective written and oral communications skills.
Proficiency in Microsoft Office suite applications (Word, Outlook, and SharePoint).
Desirable Qualifications:

Experience with GovQA system or other public records request systems.
Experience with Content Manager or other records management systems.
Knowledge of elections processes.



Travel to work locations throughout King County with limited or no public transportation services is required. A valid Washington State Driver's License is required to operate King County vehicles.
 
Union Representation:  This position is not represented.
 
Classification Title:  Project/Program Manager II
 
Hybrid Work Environment 
The work associated with this position will be performed through a combination of teleworking complemented with onsite work and meetings as needed.  Employees must reside in Washington state and within a reasonable distance to their King County worksite to respond to workplace reporting requirements.
 
Employees will be provided with a County issued laptop and must maintain a workspace with an internet connection (access may be supplemented in some situations) where they can reliably perform work and remain available and responsive during scheduled work hours. Please note that when an employee conducts work that is likely to bring them in contact with another individual, safety precautions are required, including the wearing of masks in some situations. King County is doing its part to reduce the spread of COVID-19 and remains committed to reducing our carbon footprint.
   
King County has a robust collection of tools and resources to support working remotely. The individual selected for this opportunity will be joining an innovative and progressive team that is redefining how we work as we transition to the department's hybrid environment.  
   
Forbes recently named King County as one of Washington State's best employers.
        
Together, with leadership and our employees, we're changing the way government delivers service and winning national recognition as a model of excellence. Are you ready to make a difference? Come join the team dedicated to serving one of the nation's best places to live, work and play.
 
Guided by our "True North", we are making King County a welcoming community where every person can thrive. We value diversity, inclusion and belonging in our workplace and workforce. To reach this goal we are committed to workforce equity. Equitable recruiting, support, and retention is how we will obtain the highest quality workforce in our region; a workforce that shares and will help advance our guiding principles--we are one team; we solve problems; we focus on the customer; we drive for results; we are racially just; we respect all people; we lead the way; and we are responsible stewards. We encourage people of all backgrounds and identities to apply, including Native American and people of color, immigrants, refugees, women, LGBTQ+, people living with disabilities, and veterans.
 
King County is an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Employer
No person is unlawfully excluded from employment opportunities based on race, color, religion, national origin, sex (including gender identity, sexual orientation and pregnancy), age, genetic information, disability, veteran status, or other protected class. Our EEO policy applies to all employment actions, including but not limited to recruitment, hiring, selection for training, promotion, transfer, demotion, layoff, termination, rates of pay or other forms of compensation.
   
To Apply 
If you are interested in pursuing this position, please follow the application instructions carefully. If you need this announcement in an alternate language or format, would like to request accommodation or assistance in the application or assessment process or if you have questions please contact your recruiter listed on this job announcement.
 
  For more information regarding this recruitment, please contact: 
  Reeshema Lewis
  Sr. HR Business Partner
  Email:  Reeshema.Lewis@kingcounty.gov