=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections System Administrator 
Salary: $64,293.06 - $96,439.98 YEAR
Location: 80120, CO, CO, 80120
Employer: Arapahoe County
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2025-04-29
Job Type: Full-time
Job Number: 06120
Department: Clerk and Recorder's Office
Division: Elections
Opening Date: 04/30/2025
Closing Date: 5/11/2025 11:59 PM Mountain

BENEFITS:
  • Medical, Dental, and Vision Insurance
  • Life and Supplemental Life Insurance
  • Short and Long Term Disability
  • Mandatory Pension Plan
  • Deferred Compensation Plan
  • Pre-paid Legal Services
  • Vacation and Sick Leaves
  • Holiday pay
  • Training and Educational Reimbursement Opportunities

For a more detailed listing of our benefit programs, click on the MENU link on the left and then Benefits Summary.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

NOTE: This posting has been re-opened, and if you have already applied, you are still being considered and will not be able to apply to this posting again.

The Election Systems Administrator performs leadership level administrative, and professional work in carrying out a comprehensive public facing service operation. This position specifically leads and supports all areas of ballot processing, ballot auditing and election technology maintenance.



Oversees the setup, maintenance, testing (acceptance/logic and accuracy) and deployment of voting equipment to Voter Service and Polling Centers across the county and the ballot on demand and scanning systems.
Develops and implements training plans, project plans, timelines, and procedures for all areas of ballot processing.
Supervises ballot processing election Judges in ballot scanning, adjudication, tabulation, duplication and opening.
Ensures election materials are retained and destroyed in accordance with Colorado election statute.
Support Division with proof reading ballot type reports, ballot layout, ballot content and ballot programming.
Oversees security and chain of custody practices for all voting devices and vote tabulation equipment.
Develops and implements reconciliation plan and oversees daily and aggregate ballot reconciliations for the ballot tabulation program.
Supports the Election Service Manager with organizing the election audits and canvass.
Provides technical and administrative support for the Division as needed

Skills, Abilities and Competencies:
Organized - Can marshal resources (people, funding, material, and support) to get things done.
Service First - Improve customer experience; enhance quality of life; improve trust in government
Teamwork - Cooperates with others to achieve goals and overall work objectives
Adaptability - Responds to changing circumstances by being innovative and altering behavior
Communication - Expresses clearly and effectively when speaking/writing to individuals or groups
Behavioral Competencies:
Accountability 
Inclusivity 
Accessibility 
Integrity

Education and Experience:



A bachelor’s degree in public administration, Organizational Leadership or related field
At least 3 years of relevant experience
Any equivalent combination of education and work experience that satisfy the requirements of the job
Preferred Education and Experience:
Any continued education and/or relevant certifications.
Bilingual and/or American Sign Language
At least 5 years of Election experience
At least 5 years of technology experience

Pre-Employment Additional Requirements:

Must successfully pass pre-employment testing which includes an acceptable motor vehicle record (MVR) and background check.
Security clearance required: will require fingerprinting and a Colorado Bureau of Investigation (CBI) background check.
Post-Employment Requirements:
Must be able to work nights and weekends based on business need
Work locations and facilities are subject to change based on business need
WORK ENVIRONMENT:
Work is generally confined to a standard office environment.
Hybrid work opportunities available per approval.

PHYSICAL DEMANDS:
The following are some of the physical demands commonly associated with this position.
Spends 30% of the time sitting and 70% of the time either upright or walking.
Occasionally lifts, carries, pulls, or pushes up to 50 lbs.
Uses cart, dolly, or other equipment to carry in excess of 50 lbs.
Occasionally climbs, stoops, kneels, balances, reaches, crawls and crouches while performing office or work duties.
Verbal and auditory capacity enabling interpersonal communication through automated devices, such as telephones, radios, and similar; and in public meetings and personal interactions.
Constant use of eye, hand and finger coordination enabling the use of automated office machinery or equipment.
Visual capacity enabling constant use of computer or other work-related equipment.
Definitions:
Occasionally: Activity exists less than 1/3 of the time.
Frequently: Activity exists between 1/3 and 2/3 of the time.
Constantly: Activity exists more than 2/3 of the time.

 

* Arapahoe County does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, disability, genetic information, sexual orientation or any other status protected under the law. It is our intention that all qualified applicants be given equal opportunity in any term, condition, or privilege of employment and that selection decisions are based on job-related factors. Arapahoe County is committed to making employment accessible to persons with disabilities.

** In accordance with Senate Bill 23-058, applicants understand that Arapahoe County will not request or require the applicant to include their age, date of birth, or date of attendance/graduation date on the initial application. Applicants understand that Arapahoe County can request or require an individual to provide documentation including copies of certification, transcripts, and other materials created by a third party. The applicant understands that the applicant can redact, if they so choose, information that identifies age, date of birth, or dates of attendance/graduation from an educational institution on those requested/required certification, transcripts and other materials created by a third party. 

Toll Free Applicant Technical Support:  If you experience technical difficulty with the NEOGOV system (i.e. uploading or attaching documents to your online application), call NEOGOV technical support at 855-524-5627.  Helpful hints: if you are having difficulty uploading or attaching documents to your application, first, ensure your documents are PDF or Microsoft Word files, and second, close the document before you attempt uploading (attaching) it. 

As a Regular Full-Time employee at Arapahoe County Government, you are eligible for benefits such as:	Medical, Dental, and Vision Insurance	Life and Supplemental Life Insurance	Short and Long Term Disability	Mandatory Pension Plan	Deferred Compensation Plan	Pre-paid Legal Services	Vacation and Sick Leaves	Holiday pay	Training and Educational Reimbursement OpportunitiesFor a more detailed listing of our benefit programs, click on the MENU link on the left and then Benefits Summary.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Please choose the response that best describes your educational background.
        
        
                High School Diploma or GED
                Some College
                Associate Degree
                Bachelor's Degree
                Master's Degree
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Please choose the best answer that describes your experience in public administration, organizational leadership or related field
        
        
                Less than 1 year of experience
                1 year to less than 2 years experience
                2 years to less than 3 years of experience
                3 years to less than 4 years of experience
                4 years to less than 5 years of experience
                5 years to less than 6 years of experience
                6 years to less than 7 years of experience
                7 or more years of experience
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Please choose the best answer that describes your election experience.
        
        
                Less than 1 year of experience
                1 year to less than 2 years experience
                2 years to less than 3 years of experience
                3 years to less than 4 years of experience
                4 years to less than 5 years of experience
                5 or more years of experience
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Please describe your election experience.
        
        
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Please choose the best answer that describes your technology experience.
        
        
                Less than 1 year of experience
                1 year to less than 2 years experience
                2 years to less than 3 years of experience
                3 years to less than 4 years of experience
                4 years to less than 5 years of experience
                5 or more years of experience
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Please describe your technology experience.
        
        
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Are you bilingual and/or know American Sign Language (ASL)?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Do you have a current, valid driver's license?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        Have you received eight or more points within the past twelve months or twelve or more points within the past twenty-four months against your driving record?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        How many moving traffic violations have you been cited for in the past two years?
        
        
                Less than 3 violations
                3 or 4 violations
                5 or more violations
        
    


    
        

11

    

    
        In the past three years, have you had your driver's license revoked or suspended?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        