=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Administrator
Salary: $95,000.00 - $105,000.00 YEAR
Location: Lubbock, TX, TX, 79401
Employer: Lubbock County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2026-03-10
Job Type: Full Time
Job Number: 202600055
Department: Elections
Opening Date: 03/11/2026
Closing Date: 4/8/2026 11:59 PM Central

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Appointed by the Lubbock County Election Commission and reporting to the County Judge, the Elections Administrator is responsible for leading and managing all operations of the Lubbock County Elections Department. This includes oversight of budget, personnel, election systems, and departmental resources, as well as ensuring efficient and secure election processes. The role ensures full compliance with all applicable state and federal election laws, regulations, policies, and procedures, while fostering transparency, integrity, and public trust in the electoral process.

Direct and oversee comprehensive election administration, ensuring statutory compliance across federal, state, county, and contracted local elections including maintenance and technical processing.
Collaborate with federal, state, and local election officials and political parties to conduct primary elections.
Provides insight into political subdivisions and parties on how to conduct their elections, including negotiating and executing election contracts with political subdivisions.
Educate elected officials and public on voting processes and legislative changes.
Interprets and applies the provisions of the Texas Election Code to the County’s voting process.
Coordinates voter registration procedures for voters within all election precincts leveraging the statewide voter registration system TEAMs.
Redistricting of voting precincts as needed.
Leads and administers policies and procedures associated with the management of poll workers, programs, and training.
Responsible for monitoring legislative changes affecting election procedures and budget allocations.
Participates in the technical setup of election cycles using Hart InterCivic software and oversee and assist in preparing electronic media for the elections.
Tabulates election results using Hart InterCivic Verity software and high-speed scanners and manages public disclosure.
Manages the lifecycle, technical upkeep, setup and verification of Knowink poll pads to ensure functionality for every election cycle.
Coordinates the preparation and conduct of public tests of election equipment.
Coordinate with IT for technical support and provide advance notice of election dates and polling locations. 
Collaborate with County departments to assist with transport and delivery of voting equipment, future-readiness preparation as well as security requirements.
Coordinates timely responses, in cooperation with the Civil Division District Attorney’s Office for Open Record requests. 
Manages and lead division supervisors, leadership teams and staff in short and long-term goal-setting and strategic planning in the areas of voter registration, warehouse, and facility management, voting systems, financial and operations services, and community services.
Performs personnel management including hiring, termination, suspension, employee recognition, training, and disciplinary action in collaboration with Human Resources.
Prepares, manages, and oversees the department’s annual budgets and collaborates with department management on budget needs, including county, state, and grant funds.
Prepares and gives presentations to Commissioners Court and other groups or individuals regarding voting system acquisitions, contract review, and other various complex topics related to the Elections Department.
Performs inventory control and asset management by creating complex inventory logs and reports to maintain and identify department resources.
Serves on various elections committees and provides oversight of all media requests and interviews.
Attends annual TAC-Texas Association of County training to maintain up-to-date information as it relates to the county’s legislative interests.
Maintain required continuing education through the Texas Secretary of State.
Maintain membership with TAC Election Officials and the Election Center.
Work outside of normal office hours (Monday-Friday 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.) may be required.
May be deemed essential personnel in the event of an emergency.
Performs other duties as assigned.

MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS
Bachelor’s degree in Public Administration, Political Science, Business Administration or related field, and five (5) years of experience in elections, public administration, or related field, and three (3) years of management or supervisory experience. Extensive knowledge of Texas elections laws, regulations and voting management systems. Demonstrated knowledge of election software, Microsoft Office Suite, and job-related technology. Must be a qualified voter of the State of Texas at the time of appointment.  Must be able to give bond that meets all statutory requirements in the amount set by Commissioners Court not to exceed $20,000 before assuming duties of the position. A valid Texas driver’s license. Completion of Public Information Act Basic Training by the Office of the Attorney General – required to achieve within 30 days of date of employment.

PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS
Certified Elections/Registration Administrator Certification (CERA) – required to achieve within 5 years of date of employment.  Registered Election Official (REO) Certification – required to achieve within 3 years of date of employment.  Five (5) years of progressive experience working with Texas election laws and regulations. Demonstrated experience using Election Management Software.

PHYSICAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REQUIREMENTS
Maintain the ability to regularly stand, walk, kneel, and bend during the shift, Reach, grip and use fine dexterity, Push and pull objects, Occasionally flex upper trunk forward at the waist and partially at the knees, Occasionally lift and carry up to 30 pounds, Occasionally rotate upper trunk to the left or right while sitting or standing, Place arms above, at or below shoulder height; Use of vision and depth perception, Ability to communicate clearly.  Specific vision abilities required by this job include close vision, distance vision, peripheral vision, and ability to adjust focus. Position involves safely operating a Lubbock County motor vehicle.

DISCLAIMER
The above description reflects the details considered necessary to describe the standard functions of this position and should not be construed as a thorough description of all work requirements. The characteristics of the work environment described are representative of those that an employee encounters while performing the essential functions of this job. Reasonable accommodation(s) may be made to enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions.

Equal Employment Employer: Lubbock County will not discriminate in our employment practices based on an applicant’s race, ethnicity, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, genetic information or status as a protected veteran.




