Salt Lake County…A career with a purpose in the community you love!
Salt Lake County invites you to explore our exciting career opportunities. We seek highly enthusiastic individuals to enrich our County with your experience and talent. If you enjoy working in a team environment that is committed to changing the lives of its community, please keep reading.
What it is like to work here:
At Salt Lake County our culture is woven into all aspects of our work and our employees’ lives, from the way we treat each other to the way we support the community. To promote and foster a fun and healthy work environment, we appreciate employees through great benefits, a healthy work life balance and room to grow and develop.
Surround yourself with:
Peers who are motivated to make a difference in the lives of those we serve. We serve Salt Lake County and envision a safe and beautiful place for all to live to work and have fun. Salt Lake County is about connecting people and championing our community. Community is more than a place…. It’s our heart and service that bring us together.
We encourage a work life balance:
Working for Salt Lake County is more than just a paycheck. A career with Salt Lake County includes several benefits and perks. We support our employees with 12 Holidays, up to 24 vacation days, 12 sick days and one personal day every year.
Additional Benefits include:
For Benefits information Click HERE
To estimate how much your pay and benefits could be worth use our Total Rewards Estimator
Background Check Information
Due to the nature of this position, the successful applicant must pass a required background check through fingerprinting and enrollment in the continuous RAP Back (Record of Arrest and Prosecution Back) program in accordance with current County Human Resources policy requirements.
JOB SUMMARY
Leads elections projects, supervises employees administering elections and assists in the development of elections plans and procedures. Exercises considerable independent judgement and critical thinking skills in solving problems and recommending corrective actions. Identifies, recommends and implements operational efficiencies in election administration. Performs specialized election administration duties across all work areas, including data analysis and ballot reconciliation. Reviews the work of peers and Election Managers
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS
Bachelor’s degree from an accredited college or university in Public Administration, Business Administration, or other closely related field, plus four (4) years of related experience; OR an equivalent combination of related education and experience.
Must be a U.S citizen, 18 years of age or older and eligible to register to vote.
A valid Driver’s License accepted by the State of Utah is required at the time of hire. A valid Driver’s License issued by the State of Utah must be obtained within six (6) months of hire to operate a County vehicle.
ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS
The following duties and responsibilities are intended to be representative of the work performed by the incumbent(s) in this position and are not all-inclusive. The omission of specific duties and responsibilities will not preclude it from the position.
Applicants must be prepared to demonstrate the ability to perform the essential functions of the job with or without reasonable accommodation.
KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS AND ABILITIES (KSA)
Knowledge of:
Skills and Abilities to:
WORKING CONDITIONS AND PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS
Must be able to work long hours, overtime and weekends during an election cycle
Software Powered by iCIMS
www.icims.com