=== JOB DETAILS ===

SALARY: $32,703.00 - $51,904.00 Annually
LOCATION: Wake County, NC
JOB TYPE: Permanent Full-Time
JOB NUMBER: 65030654-02182020
DEPARTMENT: State Board of Elections
DIVISION: State Board of Elections
OPENING DATE: 02/18/2020
CLOSING DATE: 2/28/2020 5:00 PM Eastern
POSITION NUMBER: 65030654
SECTION: Elections Administration
SALARY GRADE: GN07

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Primary Purpose of the Organizational Unit:
The State Board of Elections ensures compliance with state elections and campaign finance laws, rules and regulations.

Primary Purpose of the Position:
Perform a variety of administrative tasks in support of the agency's administrative operations, especially public contact and providing public assistance.

Description of Duties

Provide general administrative assistance to election administration staff.
Answer phones and email, provide election-related information to customers, direct complex matters to appropriate personnel
Prepare communications such as emails, memos, reports, instructional documents and other correspondence
Create and maintain electronic and physical filing systems.
Assist with mail distribution during peak volume mail periods.

Thorough knowledge of services, policies and procedures related to a program or area of specialization. Thorough knowledge of program information systems in order to communicate and process information.
Ability to demonstrate and apply this knowledge in performance of administrative tasks. Ability to explain and interpret information to the public, to customers and to staff.
Ability to compile, assimilate and organize both printed and electronic information. Ability to apply knowledge of data collection, storage, organization, manipulation and/or analysis of data.
Ability to utilize office equipment and other relevant technology (software and systems) to meet organizational needs.
Ability to identify and understand issues, problems and opportunities; use effective approaches for choosing a course of action or developing appropriate solutions.
Ability to clearly convey information and ideas through a variety of media to individuals and groups.
Ability to present ideas clearly and effectively in written form; ability to adjust language or terminology to meet the needs of the audience; ability to use correct grammar, organization, and structure.
Management Preference:  The preferred candidate will have experience with Election Administration on the state level.

High school diploma or General Educational Development (GED) diploma and four years of related administrative experience; or equivalent combination of education and experience.