=== JOB DETAILS ===

Salary: $53,843.04 - $65,446.56 Annually
Location: Martinez, CA
Job Type: Permanent Full-Time
Job Number: EBVA-2020
Department: Clerk - Recorder
Opening Date: 02/18/2020
Closing Date: 3/23/2020 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Non-Exempt
Bargaining Unit: 3R

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

**EXTENDED: We are accepting applications until March 23, 2020**

Are you an innovator and high achiever?  Service driven? Dedicated to quality? Want to be a part of a nationally recognized Election Team?
 
We are seeking an experienced election administration professional to serve as a lead coordinator of voter registration, customer service, and vote-by-mail operations in one of the state and nation's largest counties!
 
Contra Costa County currently has more than 650,000 registered voters and a population of 1.1 million.  Located in the San Francisco Bay Area, Contra Costa County offers great salary and benefits in addition to a collaborative and fast paced work environment. If your election experience includes tremendous overtime during an election, be prepared for a new experience.

We are looking for someone who is:
A collaborative lead
A planner and organizer
Committed to continuous improvement
A problem solver
Committed to public service
Adaptable
Knowledgeable and experienced in election administration
 
What you will typically be responsible for:
Training staff and ensures accurate work products using quality control practices
Providing lead direction to up to 5 permanent staff and up to 20 temporary staff
Actively participates in division planning, research and decision-making activities
Implementing and updates processes and procedures
Leading activities of the voter registration program including regular voter file maintenance and related voter notifications
Leading activities of the vote by mail program, including issuance, return and canvassing of ballots
May lead processes for examining petitions and signature verification
May lead the process of reviewing and adjudicating provisional ballots
May lead processes for military and overseas, confidential, and emergency voting
Providing lead support of phone and in-person customer services
 
A few reasons you might love this job: 
You will have the ability to serve your community through public service
You will have the opportunity to work in a collaborative team environment
You will have the chance to be a part of democracy in action
You will be part of a highly respected elections team
You will develop a competency and understanding of multiple election functions
A few challenges you might face in this job:
Legislation and regulations regularly change therefore processes and procedures need to be regularly updated
During peak election times the number of team members requiring training, managing, supervising increases significantly
Team work expectations require supporting the work of other elections functions
Competencies Required:
Adaptability: Responding positively to change and modifying behavior as the situation requires
Driving Results: Demonstrating concern for achieving or surpassing results against an internal standard of excellence
Teamwork: Collaborating with others to achieve shared goals
Customer Focus: Attending to the needs and expectations of customers
Action & Results Focused (Taking Initiative): Initiating tasks and focusing on accomplishment
Attention to Detail: Focusing on the details of work content, work steps, and final work products
Using Technology: Working with electronic hardware and software applications
Professional & Technical Expertise: Applying technical subject matter to the job
Business Process Analysis: Defining, assessing, and improving operational processes and workflow
Fact Finding: Obtaining facts and data pertaining to an issue or question
Informing: Proactively obtaining and sharing information
Innovative Problem Solving: Identifying and analyzing problems in order to propose new ways to do business

License Required: Possession of a valid California Motor Vehicle Operator's License. Out of state valid motor vehicle operator's license will be accepted during the applicant process.

Education: Possession of a high school diploma, G.E.D. equivalency or high school proficiency certificate.

Experience: Two (2) years of full-time, or its equivalent, experience in a public elections office performing activities in preparation for and conduct of state and local elections. This must have included clerical or technical experience using spreadsheet, word processing and database management programs.

1. Application Submission and Evaluation: Applications will be evaluated based on the minimum qualifications to determine which candidates will move forward in the next phase of the recruitment process.

2. Structured Oral Board Interview Conducted by Human Resources: The most qualified candidates will be invited to a structured oral board interview tentatively scheduled for the week of March 30, 2020. 

3. Final Hiring Interviews Conducted by Elections Department.: Tentatively scheduled for the week of April 6, 2020. 



The Human Resources Department may change the examination steps noted above in accordance with the Personnel Management Regulations and accepted selection practices.
 
CONVICTION HISTORY
After you receive a conditional job offer, you will be fingerprinted, and your fingerprints will be sent to the California Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). The resulting report of your conviction history (if any) will be used to determine whether the nature of your conviction conflicts with the specific duties and responsibilities of the job for which you have received a conditional job offer. If a conflict exists, you will be asked to present any evidence of rehabilitation that may mitigate the conflict, except when federal or state regulations bar employment in specific circumstances. Having a conviction history does not automatically preclude you from a job with Contra Costa County. If you accept a conditional job offer, the Human Resources department will contact you to schedule a fingerprinting appointment.
 
DISASTER SERVICE WORKER
All Contra Costa County employees are designated Disaster Service Workers through state and local law. Employment with the County requires the affirmation of a loyalty oath to this effect. Employees are required to complete all Disaster Service Worker-related training as assigned, and to return to work as ordered in the event of an emergency.
 
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
It is the policy of Contra Costa County to consider all applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, ethnicity, age, disability, sexual orientation, gender, gender identify, gender expression, marital status, ancestry, medical condition, genetic information, military or veteran status, or other protected category under the law.
 

 

To find more information on Benefits offered by Contra Costa County, please go to https://www.contracosta.ca.gov/1343/Employee-Benefits