=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Election Support Specialist
Salary: $47,008.00 - $69,118.40 YEAR
Location: Des Moines - 50319 - Polk County, IA, IA, 50319
Employer: State of Iowa
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2024-01-01
Job Type: Full-time
Job Number: 24-02181
Agency: 635 Iowa Secretary of State
Opening Date: 01/02/2024
Closing Date: 1/16/2024 11:59 PM Central
LinkedIn Tag: #LI-DNP
Point of Contact: Eric Gookin - Eric.Gookin@sos.iowa.gov

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

This is a non-merit position.  
 Positions in this class are exempt from the screening and referral requirements of the Iowa Department of Administrative Services - Human Resources Enterprise.

The Iowa Secretary of State is hiring an Election Support Specialist for our Election Division.
  
Office of Secretary of State
The Office of Secretary of State (SOS) has three primary areas of responsibility: 1) Elections & Voter Registration, 2) Business Services, and 3) Safe at Home. The Elections Division provides oversight on election administration and voter registration duties conducted by county elections officials. The Business Services Division accepts filings related to business entities, notaries, and other related filings. Safe at Home is an address confidentiality program for survivors of domestic and sexual violence, assault, trafficking, and stalking. In addition to these three functional areas, the SOS has financial, IT, and communications teams that provide support officewide.
 
Elections and Voter Registration
The Elections Division supervises the administration of elections and voter registration in Iowa. Elections in Iowa are conducted at the county level by the commissioners of elections. The Elections Division provides oversight, training, and helpdesk services to the commissioners. The team also responds to questions from the public about all aspects of the election process. Additionally, the Elections Division leads our election initiatives to ensure integrity and security in the voting process.
 
Election Support Specialist 
The Elections Division of the Office of Secretary of State is hiring an Election Support Specialist. This position reports to the Director of Elections. The Elections Support Specialist will be focused on providing administrative program support to the Director and to the Elections Division of the Secretary of State. Specifically, the position will be primarily responsible for responding to requests and complaints related to issues with election administration and accessibility and the federal voting assistance program's uniform and overseas citizens absentee voting act.
 
The position will also be responsible for updates to the SOS website as content owner. Additionally, this position answers questions from members of the public and county auditors about elections administration over the telephone and email. This position will be required to provide first-tier assistance. This position will assist with voter maintenance, producing voter registration lists and fulfilling list requests, election night reporting, and other similar tasks. The role monitors progress toward program goals and objectives; and tracks data before, during, and after the elections, including statistics on absentee voting, turnout, voter records, election day registrations, etc.

Applicants must meet at least one of the following minimum requirements to qualify for positions in this job classification:

Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university with a bachelor's degree in any field, and experience equal to one year of full-time administrative support (e.g., screening visitors and callers; opening/distributing mail, typing/proofing documents, letters, and reports; organizing files; scheduling meetings/appointments; arranging travel; processing travel claims; ordering supplies/equipment) or technical support work (e.g., determining budget, personnel, and equipment needs; compiling/evaluating statistical, historical, economic, business, financial or technical program data; interpreting or securing compliance with laws, rules and regulations; reviewing operating records/reports and evaluating their effectiveness).
A total of five years of education and/or full-time experience (as described in number one) where thirty semester hours of accredited college or university course work in any field equals one year of full-time experience.
Current, continuous experience in the state executive branch that includes experience equal to 12 months of full-time work as an Administrative Assistant 1.
For additional information, please click on this link to view the job description (Download PDF reader).

Why Choose the State of Iowa?At the heart of our commitment to excellence is a dedication to our most valuable asset – our employees. Discover the outstanding benefits that set us apart as an employer of choice.Our Robust Benefits Package Includes:Competitive Compensation:Enjoy a competitive salary that reflects directly on your skills and expertise.Keep in mind, your wage is just one part of your total compensation. Unlock the complete value of your employment with the State of Iowa by using our user-friendly Total Compensation Calculator. Gain insights into your comprehensive annual compensation, including salary and State-provided benefits.Health and Wellness:Prioritize your well-being with our comprehensive health plans, including medical, dental, and vision coverage. Enjoy the peace of mind knowing that the State of Iowa covers 90% of the premiums, providing you and your loved ones with excellent coverage at a remarkably low cost.Retirement Planning:We are proud to offer the Iowa Public Employees Retirement System (IPERS). A defined benefit plan, IPERS benefits are guaranteed for life, meaning once you retire, you will receive the same monthly benefit for the remainder of your life (once vested). We invest in your long-term financial well-being, so you can retire with peace of mind. Click here to learn more about IPERS.Paid Time Off:Life is unpredictable, and at the State of Iowa, we understand the importance of work-life balance. Our leave policies, including paid holidays, vacation, and sick leave with unlimited accrual, ensure you have the flexibility you need for personal and family matters.Professional Development:Elevate your career with continuous learning opportunities. We support your growth through training programs, workshops, and tuition reimbursement.Employee Assistance Program (EAP):We care about your well-being beyond the workplace. Access confidential counseling, resources, and support through our Employee Assistance Program.Diversity and Inclusion:Be part of a diverse and inclusive workplace that embraces all backgrounds and perspectives. We believe diversity is a strength that drives innovation. Join Us - Elevate Your Career:Ready to elevate your career with the State of Iowa? Click here to explore more about our unparalleled benefits and discover what makes us unique. Your success is our priority!


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Do you understand that the answers to all of the following questions must be truthful, honest, and accurate to the best of your ability? 
Please read all questions and answers thoroughly and make sure you understand them completely. Ensure the answers to your questions match the information filled out on your application and the attachments you have uploaded. If the answers to your questions are inconsistent with your application information or uploaded attachments, you will be given zero points for the question. 

Knowingly misrepresenting the facts when submitting any information related to an application, examination, certification, appeal, or any other facet of the selection process will result in your disqualification from this application and future employment with the state of Iowa.
        
        
                Yes - I understand and agree.
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        PLEASE READ CAREFULLY Have you filed a registration statement pursuant to the federal Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938, as amended, 22 U.S.C. §611 et seq?
        
        
                No - I have NOT filed a registration statement pursuant to the federal Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938, as amended, 22 U.S.C. §611 et seq
                Yes - I HAVE filed a registration statement pursuant to the federal Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938, as amended, 22 U.S.C. §611 et seq
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Does your application demonstrate that you have experience working with Voter Registration Databases and/or Election Management Systems?
        
        
                More than 5 years
                2-5 years
                Less than 2 years
                I do not have any of this experience
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Does your application demonstrate that you have experience working in Election Administration?
        
        
                More than 5 years
                2-5 years
                Less than 2 years
                I do not have any of this experience
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        