=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Manager-24310804
Salary: $88,753.60 - $107,868.80 YEAR
Location: County of San Diego, CA, CA, 92123
Employer: County of San Diego
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2024-05-13
Job Type: Regular - Full time
Job Number: 24310804
Department: Registrar of Voters
Division: Precinct Services Division
Opening Date: 05/13/2024
Closing Date: 5/29/2024 11:59 PM Pacific

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===



The San Diego County Registrar of Voters has an opening for Elections Manager 

Per County rules, this position is eligible for appointment at Step 1, $81,328.00 County employees are subject to the County Promotion Rule for Step Placement in Accordance with Comp Ord 1.3.5.


Future Salary Increases
July 2024 – 9.13% increase to base pay (2.75% Across-the-Board + 6.38% Market Increase)

The department will be reaching out to candidates to invite them to participate in an interview. Job offers will be made once interviews are complete. 

The Registrar of Voters is committed to conducting voter registration and voting processes with the highest level of professional election standards, accountability, security and integrity; thereby earning and maintaining public confidence in the electoral process. Learn more about the San Diego County Registrar of Voters at www.sdvote.com.
 
The Elections Manager class is a professional, second level management class responsible for identifying, evaluating, and resolving organizational and administrative challenges or inefficiencies, including recommending changes in policies and procedures and developing methods for implementation. The ideal candidate will plan, coordinate, and manage, through subordinate supervisors, the activities of employees engaged in performing election related services of a specialized section within the Precinct Services, Voter Services or Election Services divisions.
 
The ideal candidate will have demonstrated work experience and knowledge of:


California Elections Code and all other laws and regulations affecting the administration of elections and the registration of voters
Principles and practices of management and organizational theory, including planning, organizational design, and business finance
Processes and procedures related to the administration of elections, including principles and practice of training and supervision
Election Information Management Systems (DIMS, DFM)
Geographic Information Systems (GIS)
California Secretary of State Polling Place Accessibility Guidelines
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS


A bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university, or a certified foreign equivalency in public administration, business administration, or closely related field AND three years of full-time experience in program management and evaluation and budget development; OR,
Elections experience as a full-time employee through six (6) countywide election cycles, two (2) years of which must have been at the level of an Election Processing Supervisor in the County of San Diego or equivalent position in another agency.
Note:  Experience must have been gained through work in a state, county or city government entity. Education and work experience may be substituted on a year-for-year basis.

Please click HERE to view the complete job description for Elections Manager.

CONDITION OF EMPLOYMENT

As part of the County of San Diego’s pre-employment process, prospective candidates will undergo a background check (including fingerprinting) and a pre-employment medical screening prior to beginning County employment. Additional types of background investigations may be conducted based on the job-related activities of the position.

 

EVALUATION
 
Qualified applicants will be placed on a nine (9) month employment list based on scores received during the evaluation of information contained in their employment application and supplemental application questionnaire. Please ensure all information is complete and accurate, as the responses you provide on the supplemental application questionnaire will be reviewed using an automated evaluation system. If you are successful in the initial screening process, your application will be reviewed individually to confirm that the information you provided is accurate and qualifying.
 
Reasonable accommodation may be made to enable qualified individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions of a job, on a case-by-case basis.

The Department of Human Resources removes personally identifiable information from all recruitments. This practice, called Blind Applicant Screening, hides a candidate’s personal information that could influence or bias a hiring decision. Personal information includes name, phone number, address, gender, age and race. This process helps contribute to a fair and equitable selection process leading to a more diverse and inclusive workforce. 




The most highly qualified candidates, based on the evaluation results, will be referred for an interview.  Be sure to include your experience in meeting the minimum requirements in both the Work Experience section and the Supplemental Questionnaire section of the Application. Resumes will not be accepted in lieu of the application Work History and/or supplemental questionnaire. 


As an employer of over 19,000 employees, the County of San Diego is an organization committed to veteran hiring, retention, and professional development. We recognize the contributions and sacrifices made by our veterans and value the unique expertise and leadership qualities they bring to our workforce. We strive to provide veterans with the resources and tools necessary to maximize their employment opportunities, and to assist veterans with their transition into civilian life by applying the valuable skills, knowledge and training acquired in service to positions and career paths at all levels within our large organization. Click on the resource links below to learn more about how the County of San Diego supports its veterans.
 
Veteran’s Preference Policy The County of San Diego offers preferential credits for military service to assist qualified applicants in transitioning from military to civilian careers with the County of San Diego.
 
Military Skills Translator Do you need assistance translating your military experience into civilian experience? This tool can help!

The County of San Diego and its employees embrace the vision of: a just, sustainable, and resilient future for all. Our values include: integrity, equity, access, belonging, excellence, and sustainability. Each of which are infused throughout our operations. While also embracing a mission of strengthening our communities with innovative, inclusive, and data driven services through a skilled and supported workforce. Click here for more information on our Strategic Plan (sandiegocounty.gov) (Download PDF reader) as well as our commitment to serve everyone, to build a Framework for the Future that will create a County that works for all.

Under California Government Code Sections 3100 - 3109, public employees are designated as disaster service workers. The term "public employees" includes all persons employed by the state or any county, city, state agency, or public district. Disaster service workers are required to participate in such disaster service activities as may be assigned to them by their employer or by law.

The County of San Diego is committed to valuing diversity and practicing inclusion because our diverse workforce is our greatest asset and our customers are our number one priority.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        *Please be sure to answer the following questions in a thorough, complete, and truthful manner, as your responses may be used to determine your overall score. *Please DO NOT indicate; "See resume," or "See application," or "See question above," as these are NOT valid answers. *If you are invited to a selection interview(s) by the department, your responses to the following questions may be subject to verification. *Please review the minimum qualifications for this position before completing your application.  *If you do not meet the minimum qualification, do not apply, as your application will be rejected.

*Do you understand this information?
        
        
                YES
                NO
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

Please select from the following the one that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications:

If using education to qualify you MUST attach a copy of your college transcripts/diploma or foreign studies U.S. equivalency report at the ATTACHMENTS section of the application process in order for your education to be considered.

Make sure the experience you are using to qualify is reflected in the employment history of your application in order to be considered.
        
        
                A bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university, or a certified foreign equivalency in public administration, business administration, or closely related field AND three years of full-time experience in program management and evaluation and budget development
                Elections experience as a full-time employee through six (6) countywide election cycles, two (2) years of which have been at the level of an Election Processing Supervisor in the County of San Diego or equivalent position in another agency.
                I am using a combination of education and experience to substitute for the minimum requirements on a year for year basis
                I do not meet the minimum requirements
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        If you indicated that you qualify with Elections experience as a full-time employee through six (6) countywide election cycles, two (2) years of which have been at the level of an Election Processing Supervisor in the County of San Diego or equivalent position in another agency please provide the following information:

a) Your title(s)
b) List the six county wide election cycle dates you worked full-time

 If  you are not qualifying with this experience, indicate "N/A".
        
        
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Indicate the government entity in which you acquired your elections work experience.  Check all that apply.
        
        
                State
                County
                City
                Other
                None of the above
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        For each option you selected in the question above please describe your experience including the organization you gained your experience.

If you do not have this experience, indicate "N/A".
        
        
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Please indicate the election information management system(s) you have used. Select all that apply.
        
        
                DIMS
                DFM
                Other
                None of the above
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        For each option you selected in the question above please describe your experience including the organization you gained your experience with and your proficiency level with each selection.

If you do not have this experience, indicate "N/A".
        
        
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Please describe your experience with Geographic Information Systems including the organization you gained your experience. NOTE: In order to receive credit, please answer the question thoroughly. Your work experience MUST be verifiable in the employment history section of this application.

If you do not have this experience, indicate "N/A".
        
        
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        Please describe your Polling Place Accessibility experience including the organization you gained your experience. NOTE: In order to receive credit, please answer the question thoroughly. Your work experience MUST be verifiable in the employment history section of this application.

If you do not have this experience, indicate "N/A".
        
        
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        Where did you hear about this job opportunity?
        
        
                San Diego County website/social media
                Governmentjobs.com
                Careers in Government
                LinkedIn
                Indeed
                San Diego Voice & Viewpoint
                Family, Neighbors, Friends
                County Employee Resources Group
                College/University Career Site
                National Association of Election Officials
                ElecNet
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        