=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections and Recording Supervisor
Salary: $72,176.00 - $106,184.00 YEAR
Location: Lane County Elections Office, OR
Employer: Lane County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2024-05-10
Job Type: Regular
Job Number: 202400204
Department: County Administration
Division: CAO CC Elections
Opening Date: 05/10/2024
Closing Date: 5/28/2024 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Exempt
Bargaining Unit: 09

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

About the Position

Lane County is hiring a Program Supervisor to work in the County Clerk's office. The County Clerk's office conducts local, state, and federal elections, maintains the voter registration database for Lane County electors, issues marriage licenses and domestic partnerships, records real property and other documents, and supports the Property Value Appeals Board. The ideal candidate will be a confident team leader who possesses a proven track record of integrity and a commitment to excellence. If you have exceptional communication skills and strong attention to detail, we encourage you to apply!




This is a fully performing professional level in the assigned field or discipline requiring specialized technical skills and a solid knowledge of principles and practices in the program area. Incumbents have professional responsibility for coordinating program activities; serving as a liaison and/or advocate to internal/external customers; and assisting in program policy and procedure development, ensuring compliance with regulatory guidelines, and/or contract management. Incumbents may have formal supervisory responsibilities over professional, technical and/or support staff.


The successful candidate is expected to be or become a subject matter expert in voter registration and the conduct of elections and Deeds & Records.




About the Division

The County Clerk will administer all federal, state, and local laws as they apply to conducting elections, processing voter registration, recording land documents, and issuing marriage licenses, while maintaining the highest degree of integrity and accuracy, and providing exceptional customer service. 

Lane County Elections




Schedule: Monday – Friday; 8:00 am – 4:30 pm, Some evening and weekends during the election cycle.

*This is a non-represented position*  

Training:

Bachelor’s Degree in related field

Experience:

Three years of progressively responsible experience related to area assigned, including lead or supervisory experience; or an equivalent combination of education and experience sufficient to successfully perform the essential duties of the job such as those listed above. 

Special Requirements:

Schedule is Monday-Friday from 8:00am - 4:30 pm with possible overtime and limited periods of restricted time off , during peak election season. 

Staff perform statutorily required in-person serves and the office is open to the public, requiring staff to work in-person. 

When work permits, staff may have the ability to work from home for no more than one day per week.



Licensing Requirements:
Oregon Driver's License;

Studies have shown that women and BIPOC individuals are less likely to apply for jobs unless they believe they are able to perform every task in the job description. We are most interested in finding the best candidate for the job, and that candidate may be one who comes from a less traditional background. The county will consider any equivalent combination of knowledge, skills, education, and experience to meet minimum qualifications. If you are interested in applying, we encourage you to think broadly about your background and skill set for the role.

Equal Employment Opportunity

Lane County is an Equal Opportunity Employer. We value diversity, equity, and inclusion as essential elements that create and foster a welcoming workplace.  All qualified persons will be considered for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, political affiliation, disability or any other factor unrelated to the essential functions of the job.

Strategic Plan

In alignment with Lane County's Strategic Plan, incumbent(s) will be expected to demonstrate the following core behaviors: Passion to Serve, Driven to Connect, and Focused on Solutions.

The 2022 -2024 Strategic Plan (Download PDF reader) focuses on the areas that Lane County will pursue as a way to deliver on our vision for the residents of Lane County. To meet these challenges, we know that the basis of our efforts lies in leveraging our people and partnerships to achieve our Strategic Priorities. We also recognize that the quality and commitment of our staff is essential to a shared future where Lane County is the best place in which to live, work, and play.

Veteran Preference Information

Careers with Lane County Offer Extraordinary BenefitsAt Lane County, we value our employees and we show it with our extraordinary benefits. We know that you chose public service for more than a paycheck, and our outstanding benefits are designed to help you Live Well, Live Lane - throughout your career. Read on to learn what great benefits await you in a career with Lane County.Introducing ALEX, Lane County's benefit advisor! ALEX is an interactive tool that will help you understand the benefits being offered, out of pocket expenses and coverage available. You will need the Collective Bargaining Unit found in your job posting and when asked for your date of hire, please put in today's date.  *The below information describes typical benefits available for Regular Full-time Employees. Actual benefits received may differ by position, employment status (regular, temporary, or extra help) and/or bargaining group. ALEX Benefit Advisor (click here)Collective Bargaining Units:Admin-ProAFSCMEAFSCME NursesAFSCME PhysiciansFOPPOLCPOALocal 626Prosecuting Attorney'sBenefits to keep you & your family well - PhysicallyHealth insurance coverage becomes effective the first of the month following your first 30 days as an eligible employee.Medical/Rx/Vision - Lane County offers medical, prescription and vision exam coverage for you and your eligible dependents. The plan options and costs per month for 2018 are outlined below:If you enroll in the HDHP the County will contribute to your HSA: $1,500 (individual) or $3,000 (family) annually. This amount is prorated based on date of hire.Eligible employees who complete a Health History Risk Assessment (HHRA), Biometric Screening, and Comprehensive Health Review (CHR) at the Live Well Center receive a $20 per month credit.Wellness Clinic - The Live Well Center is for Lane County benefits-eligible employees, spouses and dependents (ages 2 and up) who are enrolled in the Lane County health plan. Marathon Health manages the Live Well Center and their clinical team provides confidential, affordable care for your acute and preventive healthcare needs. The Live Well Center also provides health coaching, chronic disease counseling, comprehensive primary care services, and much more.Dental - Lane County provides dental coverage for employees and their eligible dependents.Employee Assistance Program (EAP) - Lane County provides this counseling and concierge service to employees and members of their immediate households.Fitness Center Membership - Lane County provides employees with a free membership to a local fitness center. Employees may add their families at a discounted rate.Benefits to keep you & your family well - Financially Retirement - Lane County pays for, and enrolls employees in the Oregon Public Service Retirement Plan (OPSRP) and the Individual Account Program (IAP) following six full months of employment. (Current members are eligible upon hire.)Disability - Lane County pays a portion of wages for eligible employees through Short-Term Disability, and provides Long-Term Disability coverage. Lane County complies with all State and Federal disability laws for employee, family, parental and pregnancy leaves regulations.Time Management - Lane County provides employees with a generous bank of hours to be used for sick, vacation, family emergencies and personal days.Holidays - Lane County provides 10 paid holidays per year:New Year's Day                                   Independence DayMartin Luther King Jr's Birthday        Labor DayPresidents' Day                                   Veterans' DayMemorial Day                                      Thanksgiving DayJuneteenth                                          Christmas DayLife Insurance - Lane County pays for employee group term life insurance.County-paid Training & Development to keep your career well On-site Classes - Lane County offers a variety of on-site classes to develop employees' soft and technical skills.Online Training - Lane County offers a variety of online classes through LEAP to help employees continually improve their skills.Conferences & Seminars - Lane County will consider reimbursement for employees to attend professional conferences, dependent upon budget, to encourage continuous learning and professional development.Lane County offers these other valuable benefitsDeferred Compensation Retirement Savings - Employees may enroll in a deferred compensation program 457(b) to save for retirement.Vision - Eligible employees may purchase supplemental vision insurance.Supplemental Life Insurance - Employees may purchase supplemental life insurance for themselves and their dependents/spouse.Aflac - Optional employee-paid voluntary group coverage is available through Aflac.Group Discounts - Group discounts may include homeowners and auto insurance, pet health insurance, credit union membership.Paid medical, dental and vision coverage for dependents is determined by labor agreement or APM, as applicable. Physicians should contact their supervisor for health plan options and rates. Please note that Temporary and Extra Help positions are not typically eligible for benefits. This is only brief summary of benefits available to eligible Lane County employees. In all cases, plan documents govern. For additional information about these extraordinary benefits contact the Benefit Resource Center at 1-866-468-7272, or Lane County HR at (541) 682-3124.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        IMPORTANT: Please ensure you have included all RELEVANT education, employment and experience in your application. To ensure compliance with Oregon Equal Pay laws, Human Resources will conduct a wage analysis based on the information you have provided in your application to determine the appropriate starting wage if you are selected.
        
        
                I acknowledge I have provided all relevant education and employment history.
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Please answer YES if you meet one of the following criteria:
a.	You have a valid Oregon Driver's License.
b.	You have a valid driver's license from another state AND are able to obtain an Oregon Driver's License by the time of appointment.
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        What is your highest level of education?
        
        
                High School diploma or equivalent.
                Associate's degree.
                Two-year technical certificate or coursework.
                Bachelor's degree.
                Master's degree or higher.
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        How many years of progressively responsible experience do you have related to area assigned, including lead or supervisory experience?
        
        
                No experiences or less than 1 yr.
                1 - 2 years
                2 - 3 years
                3 - 4 years
                4 - 5 years
                5 - 6 years
                6 - 7 years
                At least 7 or more years
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        In no more than 300 words. Describe your experience coordinating and scheduling staff for a complex project. Describe the scope of the project in terms of complexity, staff, and length of time to complete. (25 points)
        
        
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        In no more than 300 words. Describe your supervisory experience, including the number of staff supervised, and type of work. (25 points)
        
        
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        In no more than 300 words. Describe a situation when you interpreted and utilized applicable law, rules, or regulations in your day-to-day work. (25 points)
        
        
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        In no more than 300 words. Describe your experience working in an Election or Recording office. (25 points)
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        