=== JOB DETAILS ===

Salary: $36,774.40 - $57,012.80 Annually
Location: Kingman, AZ
Job Type: Full Time-Classified
Job Number: 01661
Department: Recorder
Division: Voter Registration
Opening Date: 10/19/2017
Closing Date: Continuous
FLSA: Non-Exempt

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Mohave County is currently recruiting for a Voter Registration Coordinator
*Position Open Until Filled*

Performs journey-level work assisting County Recorder with plans, organization, coordination and activities of all election and voter registration duties to ensure compliance with applicable Federal and State laws, rules and regulations.
 
REPORTS TO
Work is performed under the general direction of the County Recorder. The employee is expected to exercise initiative, independent judgement and discretion in efficiently performing a full range of administrative and office management tasks. Work is reviewed as a quality control measure. Outcome of election and audit trail will show compliance.             
 
SUPERVISION EXERCISED
May provide technical, functional and/or supervision of assigned Voter Registration/Election workers.

Skill with computer programming and analysis, custom reports, and statistics. 
Monitor Voter Registration of Arizona (VRAZ) - daily downloads and Voter Registration (VR) systems and reports to County Recorder.
Update voter records/street files/Power Profile date base maintenance.
Lead Voter outreach efforts.
Early voting site set up/confirmation/delivery/equipment updates.
Assist with hiring and training temporary election workers.
Preparation of Department of Justice (DOJ) documentation and submission.
Assist in departmental budget preparation and inventory.
Petition and early ballot signature verification.
Performs a variety of administrative staff work such as: respond to requests for information or services; developing policies, procedures and training sessions; preparing correspondence, reports and statistical information as required.
Verifies and processes new voter registrations, changes of party, address and cancellations; maintains voter registration records; supervises special absentee boards for homebound voting and nursing home patients; completes validation of petitions, verifies the qualifications of persons voting question ballots; provides accurate voter and signature rosters to polling places; mails out and receives absentee ballots; maintains records of absentee ballots; maintains records of absentee voting; enters changes of voter precinct assignments, notifies voters of changes of precinct as a result of precinct boundary changes.
 SECONDARY JOB FUNCTIONS
Providing excellent customer service while working early voter counter.
Preparing ballots for mailing.
Driving to early voting sites picking up and delivering ballots.
Assist with redistricting, Global Information Systems (GIS), street file projects and maintenance.
Oversees early ballot procedures.
Performs special assignments as requested.
Performs related work as required.

High School diploma/GED.
Associates in Public Administration, Business Management, Accounting or closely related field.
One (1) year voter registration or elections experience. OR
Any equivalent combination of education, experience, and training which provides the required knowledge, skills and abilities will be considered in meeting the minimum qualifications.
Must possess a valid State of Arizona Driver's License at the start of employment and maintain said license while employed in this position.
SPECIAL JOB REQUIREMENT
Must be able to receive state certification within 24 months of hire. AZ SOS (Secretary of State) Elections Officer Certified.
Must be able to complete a handwriting analysis class within 24 months of hire if not previously completed.
 PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS
Bachelors Degree in Public Administration, Business Management, Accounting or closely related field.
Three (3) years Voter Registration or Elections Experience.
One (1) year supervisory experience in Voter Registration or Elections.
AZ SOS Elections Officer Certified.
CERA (Certified Election Registration Administrator)
Knowledgeable with Arizona State Statues.
Completed handwriting analysis class.
Knowledgeable with Arizona State Voter Registration system.
Works well under pressure and long hours.

Knowledge of:
Office management practices and procedures.
Voter Registration or Elections procedures and policies.
Operation and maintenance of computer peripheral equipment such as high speed printers, tape, disk, computer display terminals or similar devices.
Windows and Microsoft Word and Excel.
Mohave County Personnel Policies and Procedures, and Department Regulation.
Skill in:
Operate standard office equipment.
Data Entry.
 Ability to:
Perform the essential functions of the job specifications with or without a reasonable accommodation.
Communicate effectively.
Develop and maintain cooperative and harmonious working relationships with the General Public and diverse workforce.
Comply with Mohave County Personnel Policies and Procedures, and Department Regulations.               
 

********************************
Equal Opportunity Employer/Program.
Auxiliary aids and services are available upon request for individuals with disabilities.

 

 

Mohave County is an Equal Opportunity Employer.
It is the policy of Mohave County to provide equal opportunity in employment to all job applicants and employees. The County shall not discriminate against any person in recruitment, examination, appointment, training, pay promotion, retention, discipline or any other aspect of personnel administration, term or condition of employment, due to race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy), national origin, genetic information or disability, age (40 or older).

Applicants must be authorized to work for any employer in the U.S.

We are unable to sponsor or take over sponsorship of an employment Visa.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        In one or two brief sentences, please explain why you are interested in this specific position?
        
        
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        In one or two sentences, please tell us your definition of customer service.
        
        
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        How many years of experience answering questions from the public do you have?
In person? By Phone?
        
        
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        What has been your most significant professional accomplishment and why.
        
        
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Describe your level of proficiency with Microsoft Word and Excel applications (i.e. Beginner, Intermediate, Advanced)
        
        
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        In a few sentences, please explain why you feel you are the best candidate for this position.
        
        
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Summarize your experience which demonstrates your ability to exercise good public relations and interpersonal skills that foster effective working relationships, conflict resolution and team building.
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        