=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Communications Manager
Salary: $114,167.25 - $144,713.92 YEAR
Location: WA 98057-2906, WA, WA, 98104
Employer: King County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2023-01-30
Job Type: Career Service, Full Time, 40 hrs/week
Job Number: 2023RL17962
Department: KCE - King County Elections
Division: Administration
Opening Date: 01/30/2023
Closing Date: 2/13/2023 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Exempt
Bargaining Unit: Z3 : KC Personnel Guidelines

BENEFITS:
  • Medical, dental, and vision coverage: King County pays 100% of the premiums for eligible employees and family members
  • Life and disability insurance: employees are provided basic coverage and given the opportunity to purchase additional insurance for both the employee and eligible dependents
  • Retirement: King County employees are eligible to participate in a pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems and a 457(b) deferred-compensation plan
  • Transportation program and ORCA transit pass
  • 12 paid holidays each year (plus 2 personal holidays)
  • Generous vacation and paid sick leave
  • Paid parental leave, family and medical leaves, and volunteer leave
  • Flexible Spending Account
  • Wellness programs
  • Onsite gyms and activity centers
  • Employee giving program
  • Employee assistance programs
  • Flexible schedules and telecommuting options, depending on position
  • Training and career development programs

For additional information about employee benefits please visit our
Benefits, Payroll, and Retirement Page
.
This is a general description of the benefits offered to eligible King County employees, and every effort has been made to ensure its accuracy.  If any information on this document conflicts with the provisions of a collective bargaining agreement (CBA), the CBA prevails.  Also, in the event of any incorrect information in this document, applicable laws, policies, rules, CBAs, or official plan documents will prevail.
NOTE:
Benefits for Term Limited Temporary (TLT) or Short Term Temporary (STT) positions, including leave eligibility and/or participation in the pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems, will vary based upon the terms and details of the position. Short Term Temporary positions are not eligible for an ORCA transit pass.
For inquiries about the specifics of this position, please contact the recruiter identified on this job posting.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

This is an amazing opportunity to be engaged in the election process!


King County's Department of Elections is seeking an innovative and effective Communications Manager to lead the department’s communications team.

The Department of Elections is searching for an energetic and resourceful professional who likes to get stuff done. The Communications Manager position offers an opportunity to craft a communications strategy and cultivate the talents of a diverse team to communicate proactively, regularly, and reliably with the voters of King County. The ideal candidate will thrive in an innovative, fast-paced environment, will possess strong strategic perspective and pollical savvy, and will not hesitate to roll up their sleeves, have fun, and get the job done.
 
This position reports to the Chief of Staff for the Department of Elections. The person who fills this role will oversee all elements of the department’s communication efforts and serve as a key advisor to both the Director of Elections and Chief of Staff. The position will play a central role in key transformational efforts for the department such as implementing ranked choice voting and lead cross-departmental efforts such as developing a comprehensive campaign to combat misinformation about elections. The Communications Manager will also serve as a representative to the media and the public on behalf of the department, including live and recorded interviews, presentations, and other requests.

King County Elections (KCE) manages voter registrations and elections for nearly 1.4 million voters in King County and was for many years the largest vote-by-mail county in the United States. KCE's mission is to conduct accessible, secure, and accurate elections. As a leader in providing inclusive elections, KCE is focused on three key priorities – (1) actively identifying and working to remove barriers to voting at both the individual and community level, (2) strengthening relationships with community and governmental partners, and (3) creating a culture of professional growth and development, openness and inclusion. Learn more at www.kingcounty.gov/elections.aspx.

Who May Apply:  This position is open to the general public and all King County employees.
 
Materials Required to Apply: Applicants must submit a (1) King County Application, (2) Resume, (3) Letter of interest, and (4) At least 2 recent, relevant writing samples (excerpts from longer documents are acceptable), up to 6 pages total. The letter of interest should describe how your education and experience meet the qualifications and have prepared you to perform the essential functions of the job. Applications without the required materials may not be considered for this position.
 
Work Location(s): This position is located at Renton Elections Building, 919 SW Grady Way, Renton, WA 98057.  

Work Schedule:  The standard workweek for this position is Monday through Friday, 40 hours per week.  We require the flexibility to work additional hours during peak periods of the Election cycle.  This position is exempt from the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act and is therefore not eligible for overtime.

In this role you will have the opportunity to:


Lead the Department’s communication’s team, including overseeing social media, graphic design, earned and paid media, and all other communications-related functions. 
Supervise and manage staff, including hiring, assigning duties, providing training, coaching, and evaluating performance.
Develop a comprehensive communications strategy that will promote voter education and engagement, combat misinformation, and further awareness of King County Election’s programs and services.  
Review, debrief, and report-out on communication programs and plans to ensure the department is continuously improving and having a tangible impact.  
Support the elected Director of Elections in both internal and external engagements, including presentations, speaking engagements, media appearances, and other correspondence.  
Serve as the primary contact for media, including responding to inquiries and serving as a spokesperson for the department.
Prepare, manage and monitor the paid media budget including writing proposals and making recommendations on the best use of department resources.    
Represent King County Elections on countywide, inter-jurisdictional, and statewide committees related to communications.
Write or supervise writing of printed materials, press releases, website content, speeches, and other public communications.

Exceptional written and verbal communication skills. 
Demonstrated ability to work in a fast-paced environment with little supervision. 
Demonstrated ability to think strategically and incorporate perspectives from a variety of sources.  
Demonstrated ability to identify the communication needs of diverse audiences and determine the best communications methods, messages, and tools to reach them. 
Skill in leading projects, as well incorporating and balancing feedback from a variety of stakeholders.
Demonstrated ability to manage a team to not only meet goals but also learn, grow, and feel engaged in the workplace. 
Strong public speaking skill and aptitude for composure under pressure. 
Skill in complex decision-making and the ability to creatively solve problems. 
Skill in organizing, prioritizing, and managing multiple programs and projects to meet specific deadlines. 
Desired qualifications:          

Bachelor’s degree in Communications, Journalism or Marketing Communication OR any combination of education and experience that clearly demonstrates the ability to perform the job duties of the position.
Experience in leading strategic internal and external communication efforts. 



SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION: 
 
Travel to work locations throughout King County with limited or no public transportation services is required. A valid Washington State Driver's License is required to operate King County vehicles.
 
Union Membership: This position is not represented.
 
Temporary Telecommuting Requirement 
The work associated with this position will be performed through a combination of teleworking complemented with onsite work and meetings as needed.  Employees must reside in Washington state and within a reasonable distance to their King County worksite to respond to workplace reporting requirements.
 
Employees will be provided with a County issued laptop and must maintain a workspace with an internet connection (access may be supplemented in some situations) where they can reliably perform work and remain available and responsive during scheduled work hours. Please note that when an employee conducts work that is likely to bring them in contact with another individual, safety precautions are required, including the wearing of masks in some situations. King County is doing its part to reduce the spread of COVID-19 and remains committed to reducing our carbon footprint.
   
King County has a robust collection of tools and resources to support working remotely. The individual selected for this opportunity will be joining an innovative and progressive team that is redefining how we work as we transition to the department's hybrid environment.  
   
Forbes recently named King County as one of Washington State's best employers.
        
Together, with leadership and our employees, we're changing the way government delivers service and winning national recognition as a model of excellence. Are you ready to make a difference? Come join the team dedicated to serving one of the nation's best places to live, work and play.
   
Guided by our "True North", we are making King County a welcoming community where every person can thrive. We value diversity, inclusion and belonging in our workplace and workforce. To reach this goal we are committed to workforce equity. Equitable recruiting, support, and retention is how we will obtain the highest quality workforce in our region; a workforce that shares and will help advance our guiding principles--we are one team; we solve problems; we focus on the customer; we drive for results; we are racially just; we respect all people; we lead the way; and we are responsible stewards. We encourage people of all backgrounds and identities to apply, including Native American and people of color, immigrants, refugees, women, LGBTQ+, people living with disabilities, and veterans.
   
King County is an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Employer
No person is unlawfully excluded from employment opportunities based on race, color, religion, national origin, sex (including gender identity, sexual orientation and pregnancy), age, genetic information, disability, veteran status, or other protected class. Our EEO policy applies to all employment actions, including but not limited to recruitment, hiring, selection for training, promotion, transfer, demotion, layoff, termination, rates of pay or other forms of compensation.
   
To Apply 
If you are interested in pursuing this position, please follow the application instructions carefully. If you need this announcement in an alternate language or format, would like to request accommodation or assistance in the application or assessment process or if you have questions please contact your recruiter listed on this job announcement.
 
For more information regarding this recruitment, please contact: 
 Reeshema Lewis
 Sr. HR Business Partner
 Email:  Reeshema.Lewis@kingcounty.gov 