=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: State Division Administrator 17 - Filing, Disclosure and Compliance Division
Salary: $106,679.00 - $145,032.00 YEAR
Location: Lansing, MI, MI, 48909
Employer: State of Michigan
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2022-03-14
Job Type: Permanent Full Time
Job Number: 2301-22-EL346
Department: Department of State
Opening Date: 03/15/2022
Closing Date: 4/5/2022 11:59 AM Eastern
Bargaining Unit: NON-EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTED EMPLOYEE (NERE)

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===




This position serves as the Director of the Filing, Disclosure and Compliance Division. The Division is responsible for administering and interpreting the Campaign Finance Act, Lobbyist Registration Act, Casino Registration Act, portions of the Michigan Election Law, and Notary Public Act. This position is responsible for managing and overseeing multiple complex work units and other professional staff; core programs related to campaign finance and lobby registration reporting, disclosure and compliance; Office of the Great Seal, including intake of enrolled bills and assignment of Public Act numbers, filing of Executive Orders and Executive Directives, document authentication and certification; state-level candidate filings for office and statewide initiative, referendum and constitutional amendment petition filings; and, in coordination with the Regulatory Section, Bureau responsibilities related to the Board of State Canvassers..

POSITION DESCRIPTION (Download PDF reader)

MDOSJOBS

Education
Possession of a bachelor's degree in any major.

Law degree is preferred but not required. 

Experience
Two years of experience as a professional manager or program/staff specialist, or equivalent experience.

Alternate Education and Experience 
Education level typically acquired through completion of high school and three years of safety and regulatory or law enforcement experience at the 14 level; or, two years of safety and regulatory or law enforcement experience at the 15 level, may be substituted for the education and experience requirements.

Please attach an updated cover letter and resume to your application. Failure to do so may result in your application being screened out from the hiring process.

You must apply for this vacancy through the NEOGOV system; click on "Apply" in the job posting for instructions in submitting your electronic application. Your application for any position does not guarantee that you will be contacted by the Department for further consideration. Only those applicants interviewed will be notified of the results.

Civil Service Commission Rule 2-7 requires that all newly hired state employees submit to and pass a pre-employment drug test prior to their actual appointment.  Due to the nature of work of the Department of State, criminal and driving records will be checked.  Any position offer will be conditional until results of the criminal background record checks indicate eligibility for employment.


View the job specification at:
Microsoft Word - StateDivisionAdministrator.doc (michigan.gov) (Download PDF reader) 

Accommodations
If you require a reasonable accommodation to participate in the application or selection processes, please contact the ADA coordinator (Download PDF reader) for the agency that posted this position vacancy.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        A bachelor's degree or higher in any major AND at least two years of post-degree experience as a professional manager or program/staff specialist. If so, please attach a copy of your official college transcripts.

OR

At least one year of professional experience in the state classified service AND at least two years of experience as a professional manager or program/staff specialist

OR

at least an educational level typically acquired through the completion of high school AND at least three years of safety and regulatory or law enforcement experience at the 14 level; or at least two years of safety and regulatory or law enforcement experience at the 15 level.
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Please list all previous names, to include name at birth, and any alias name(s) used. If you do not have any previous/alias names to list, please enter "none".
        
        
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Are you related to anyone currently working for the Department of State (Secretary of State)?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        If you answered "yes" to question #3, please list the name of each relative. If you answered "no" to question #3, please enter "none".
        
        
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have with the Michigan Campaign Finance Act, Michigan  Lobby Act, Michigan Casino Registration Act, or other election, campaign finance, or ethic laws at the State, Federal or other jurisdictional levels?
        
        
                None
                Less than 2 years
                2 to 5 years
                More than 5 years
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Please describe your experience with interpreting and enforcement of the Michigan Campaign Finance Act, Michigan Lobby Act, and Michigan Casino Registration Act or other election, campaign finance, or ethic laws at the State, Federal or other jurisdictional levels. If you do not possess this experience, please enter "N/A."
        
        
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        What do you see as the most important priorities and the most critical challenges for the Filings, Disclosure and Compliance Division?
        
        
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Please describe how you've created enforcement priorities and goals and how you would align this Division's resources to accomplish those goals. If you do not possess this experience, please enter "N/A."
        
        
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have managing staff?
        
        
                None
                Less than 2 years
                2 to 5 years
                More than 5 years
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        Please describe your experience managing staff.  If you do not possess this experience, please enter "N/A"
        
        
        
    


    
        

11

    

    
        Please explain why you are interested in this position. In addition, why you should be considered as the candidate of choice?
        
        
        
    


    
        

12

    

    
        If you qualify based on your education, as listed in the alternate education and experience section, did you attach your "official" college transcripts (unofficial transcripts are not acceptable)?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

13

    

    
        Did you attach a copy of your resume and cover letter?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        