=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: State Administrative Manager 15 - Elections Operations Manager
Salary: $87,471.00 - $125,818.00 YEAR
Location: Lansing, MI, MI, 48909
Employer: State of Michigan
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2021-05-04
Job Type: Permanent Full Time
Job Number: 2301-21-EL333
Department: Department of State
Opening Date: 05/05/2021
Closing Date: 5/19/2021 11:59 PM Eastern
Bargaining Unit: NON-EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTED EMPLOYEE (NERE)

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

 


This position serves to manage and support the Bureau of Election's (BOE) Operations Section, including external and internal operations and performance activities. The purpose is to optimize the BOE’s daily functions and the performance and quality of BOE functions and external partner activities. This position supports BOE by managing vendor relationships, liaising with other State agencies and offices, managing grant and equipment distribution to local jurisdictions, overseeing special projects (including process improvements), serving as the main logistics point-of-contact for the Secretary of State website and phone functions (external), as well as for Department of State press and constituent relations questions. The position also provides second level supervision and leadership for the Data and Programs Unit within the Operations Section of BOE. The Data and Programs unit manages the Qualified Voter File, including the street index, ballot administration and candidate listing application, equipment, resource, and security implementation, along with analytics and requests and process tracking.

Please review the position description and Civil Service Job Specification for further details.


Position Description for State Administrative Manager 15 (Download PDF reader)

Work Location: 430 W. Allegan St., Lansing MI 48933 (with statewide travel)
Work Schedule: 8:00am - 5:00pm; Monday - Friday (with some nights and weekends)

MDOSJOBS

Education for State Administrative Manager 15
Possession of a bachelor's degree in any major.

Experience for State Administrative Manager 15

Four years of professional experience, including two years equivalent to the experienced (P11) level or one year equivalent to the advanced (12) level.

State Administrative Manager 15
Education level typically acquired through completion of high school and two years of safety and regulatory or law enforcement experience at the 14 level; or, one year of safety and regulatory or law enforcement experience at the 15 level, may be substituted for the education and experience requirements.

Please attach an updated resume and cover letter to your application. Failure to attach these document may screen your application out of the selection process. 


Civil Service Commission Rule 2-7 requires that all newly hired state employees submit to and pass a pre-employment drug test prior to their actual appointment.  Due to the nature of work of the Department of State, criminal and driving records will be checked.  Any position offer will be conditional until results of the criminal background record checks indicate eligibility for employment.

Your application for any position does not guarantee that you will be contacted by the Department for further consideration.  Only those applicants interviewed will be notified of the results.

Job Specification (Download PDF reader)

Accommodations
If you require a reasonable accommodation to participate in the application or selection processes, please contact the ADA coordinator (Download PDF reader) for the agency that posted this position vacancy.