ADMINISTRATOR II
Recruitment #22-002587-0135
| Department | SBE General Administration |
|---|---|
| Date Opened | 8/11/2022 3:15:00 PM |
| Filing Deadline | 8/25/2022 11:59:00 PM |
| Salary | $54,992.00 - $88,315.00/year |
| Employment Type |
Full-Time
|
| HR Analyst | Shermaine Malcolm |
| Work Location |
Anne Arundel
|
GRADE
LOCATION OF POSITION
Main Purpose of Job
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS
Experience:Â Â NineÂ years of experience in administrative staff or professional work. One year of this experience must have involved one or more of the following:Â the supervision of other employees, overseeing and coordinating the general operations of a unit, applying rules and regulations, or exercising responsibility for the development of policies or procedures.
Notes:
1. Candidates may substitute 30 credit hours from an accredited college or university for each year up to four years of the required experience.Â
2.Â Candidates may substitute the possession of a Bachelor's degreeÂ from an accredited college or university and five years of experience in administrative staff or professional work for the required experience.Â One year of this experience must have involved one or more of the following:Â the supervision of other employees, overseeing and coordinating the general operations of a unit, applying rules and regulations, or exercising responsibility for the development of policies or procedures.
3.Â Candidates may substitute additional graduate level education at an accredited college or university at the rate of 30 credit hours on a year-for-year basis forÂ the required experience.
4.Â Candidates may substitute U.S. Armed Forces military service experience as a commissioned officer involving staff work relatedÂ to the administration of rules, regulations, policy, procedures andÂ processes, or overseeing or coordinating unit operations orÂ functioning as a staff assistant to a higher ranking commissionedÂ officer on a year-for- year basis for the required experience.
DESIRED OR PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS
Preference will be given to applicantsÂ who possess the following preferred qualification(s).Â Include clear and specific information on your application regardingÂ your qualifications.
1. Experience training election judges or other professional employees or volunteers.
2. Experience administering an election, preferably in Maryland.
3. Experience in public speaking and facilitating meetings with stakeholders.
4. Experience in responding to inquiries and concerns of the public.
5. Experience working in a fast-paced, deadline-driven environment.
6. Detail oriented, good organizational skills, and strong verbal and writing skills.
LICENSES, REGISTRATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS
SELECTION PROCESS
Please make sure that you provide sufficient information on your application to show that you meet the qualifications for this recruitment. All information concerning your qualifications must be submitted by the closing date.Â We will not consider information submitted after this date.Â Successful candidates will be ranked as Best Qualified, Better Qualified, or Qualified and placed on theÂ eligible (employment) list for at least one year.
EXAMINATION PROCESS
The assessment may consist of a rating of your education, training, and experience related to the requirements of the position.Â It is important that you provide complete and accurate information on your application.Â Please report all experience and education that is related to this position.
BENEFITS
FURTHER INSTRUCTIONS
Online applications are highly recommended. However, if you
are unable to apply online, the paper application (and supplemental
questionnaire) may be submitted to SBE's HR Division at 151 W. St., Suite 200,
Annapolis, MD 21401. Resumes will not be accepted in lieu of completing the
online or paper application. Paper application materials must be received by 5
pm, close of business, on the closing date for the recruitment,Â No postmarks
will be accepted. If additional information is required, the preferred method
is to upload.Â If you are unable to
upload, please email the requested information to Chris Lohr at
Chris.Lohr@maryland.gov.Â Only additional
materials that are required will be accepted for this recruitment.Â
For questions regarding this recruitment, please contact 410-269-2840.
Appropriate accommodations for individuals with disabilities
are available upon request by calling MD TTY Relay Service 1-800-735-2258.
We thank our Veterans for their service to our country.
People with disabilities and bilingual candidates are
encouraged to apply.
As an equal opportunity employer, Maryland is committed to
recruitment, retaining and promoting employees who are reflective of the
State's diversity.