=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Chief Information Officer
Salary: $7,885.00 - $13,237.00 MONTH
Location: Sangamon County, IL, IL, 62706
Employer: State of Illinois
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2022-08-22
Job Type: Full-Time
Job Number: SBE082322
Department: Elections Board *
Opening Date: 08/23/2022

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Summary of Benefits: This position title is eligible for our hybrid telework arrangement (up to 2 remote days per week) and tuition reimbursement programs (100% of tuition costs covered). Upon accepting this position, you will be eligible to enroll into the State of Illinois Group Insurance Program, which includes various highly competitive and low cost coverage options for health, dental, vision, and life insurance. In addition this position offers a competitive time off package, including: 12 paid sick days per calendar year (accrual basis); a minimum of 10 paid vacation days per calendar year (accrual basis); 3 personal days per calendar year; and 12 paid state holidays per calendar year.

 

The SBE welcomes all and promotes workplace diversity. It is our individual traits, character, and experiences that make each of us special and unique. It is only when we bring that individualism together and work as a diverse team that we thrive. There is no place for discrimination based on race, religion, culture, sexual identity or orientation, age, or disability at the State Board of Elections.


Functions as Chief Informaiton Officer (CIO) of the SBE Information Technology Systems.  Responsibilities encompass full range of information services; application design and development, system administration, data administration, operations, production control, and data communications.

In conjunction with the Board, Executive Director, and Executive staff, the CIO determines the role of information systems in achieving Board goals.  Defines goals in terms of statutory obligations to be met, problems to be solved, and/or opportunities that can be realized through the application of computerized information systems.    Prepares and submits budget based projections of hardware, software, staff and other resource needs to adequately provide for existing systems, as well as support of new project initiatives.   Advises Executive Staff in matters relating to information technology.  Develops presentations and reports for the Board and Administrative Staff.  In conjunction with Executive Staff, evaluates system performance to determine appropriate enhancements.

Establishes, oversees, and maintains Information Technology policies, standards, and procedures. Ensures change management processes are in place, routinely evaluated, and improved upon. Designs, defines, coordinates, and manages network architecture and infrastructure. Designs, performs system analysis, and provides guidance on the development of computer programs, as necessary. Maintains local and area-wide networks in Springfield and Chicago; ensuring network, server, endpoint, and virtual infrastructures are properly maintained to ensure availability of services to both internal and external customers.

Lead strategic technology discussions and planning with executive and divisional leadership to drive the creation and innovation of agency information systems. Manages and supervises designated staff; assigns work; approves time off; provides guidance and training when necessary; objectively completes performance evaluations; establishes goals and objectives; counsels designated staff on problems with productivity, quality of work and/or conduct. Constructs and supervises project development teams consisting of Information Technology Staff and system-user personnel.  Develops work and activity plans to establish and meet target dates.  Schedules seminars, courses, self-study and other training in support of technical and non-technical staff development.

Keeps abreast of advanced Information Technology concepts, election law and Board policy. Analyzes pending legislation to determine ramifications for existing and proposed systems.

Work in direct partnership with Information Security department leadership to strategically identify and mitigate security risks to the agency’s network, information systems, and data; administers Board data and databases.  Designs, implements, maintains, and updates to Backup processes and procedures, Disaster Recovery, Business Continuity, risk reduction, and vulnerability mitigation, etc.

Perform other duties as required or assigned which are reasonably within the duties enumerated above.








Requires knowledge, skill, and mental development equivalent to completion of four years of college and four years of progressively responsible administrative experience in a public or private organization. Requires eight (8) years of knowledge and experience in information systems, network administration, and project management. Requires ability to analyze and develop short- and long-term operational and budgetary needs related to personnel, space, equipment, and services for the division.

Preferred qualifications:
Five (5) years of managerial experience with a minimum of eight (8) subordinate staff.
Certifications: ITIL, Microsoft MCSE, Cisco CCNA/CCNP, VMware, Citrix, six sigma, PMP, CPM, CAPM.








8:00 am - 4:30 pm
State Board of Elections
2329 S. MacArthur Blvd.
Springfield, IL 62704

Danielle Martinez
Human Resource Manager
217-782-1527
DMartinez@elections.il.gov

 




The SBE is a non-code agency and DOES NOT accept CMS-100 applications.

Click here to download a State Board of Elections Employment Application (Download PDF reader).

Please complete the application and resume and mail or email to:

Illinois State Board of Elections
Attn: Danielle Martinez
2329 S. MacArthur Blvd.
Springfield, IL 62704
DMartinez@elections.il.gov

Fax to: 217-558-5401

This vacancy is open until filled.

BENEFITS FOR STATE EMPLOYEESState of Illinois employees may be eligible for a variety of benefits associated with their employment. From a comprehensive health and dental insurance program, to vacation and sick leave days and a generous retirement plan, the State of Illinois offers a competitive benefits program for state employees. To learn more about the benefits of state employment, please explore the links below:Healthcare Benefits:The State offers its employees a comprehensive health and dental program along with a wide array of supplemental insurance programs. Illinois has long been committed to providing employees with the best possible insurance benefits at the greatest possible value.Retirement Benefits:In addition to health and dental insurance programs, state employees are offered a generous pension program with options that can be tailored to meet employees' needs.Workplace Benefits:State employees may also be eligible for other benefits such as holidays, annual leave and sick leave.Visit our Illinois Benefits website to see a more detailed summary of other benefits which are available to state employees.Note: The above benefits are available to most state employees with the exception of those in temporary positions. Employees in temporary, part-time and student worker positions may be eligible for all, some or none of these benefits.