=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Division Director
Salary: $6,023.00 - $12,374.00 MONTH
Location: Sangamon County, IL, IL, 62706
Employer: State of Illinois
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2022-08-29
Job Type: Full-Time
Remote Employment: Flexible/Hybrid
Job Number: SBE083022
Department: Elections Board *
Opening Date: 08/30/2022

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Summary of Benefits: This position title is eligible for our hybrid telework arrangement (up to 2 remote days per week) and tuition reimbursement programs (100% of tuition costs covered). Upon accepting this position, you will be eligible to enroll into the State of Illinois Group Insurance Program, which includes various highly competitive and low cost coverage options for health, dental, vision, and life insurance. In addition this position offers a competitive time off package, including: 12 paid sick days per calendar year (accrual basis); a minimum of 10 paid vacation days per calendar year (accrual basis); 3 personal days per calendar year; and 12 paid state holidays per calendar year.

 

The SBE welcomes all and promotes workplace diversity. It is our individual traits, character, and experiences that make each of us special and unique. It is only when we bring that individualism together and work as a diverse team that we thrive. There is no place for discrimination based on race, religion, culture, sexual identity or orientation, age, or disability at the State Board of Elections.

 

 Subject to Executive Director approval; oversees the administration of human resource programs including, but not limited to, compensation, payroll, benefits, and leave; disciplinary matters; disputes and investigations; performance and talent management; productivity, recognition, and morale; occupational health and safety; and training and development. Serves as the Board’s subject matter expert relating to personnel and human resource matters. 

Identifies staffing and recruiting needs; develops and executes best practices for hiring and talent management. Conducts research and analysis of Board trends including review of reports and metrics from human resource information systems. 

  

Recommends, implements, and ensures compliance with agency policies and procedures including, but not limited to, hiring, disciplinary actions, employee grievances, compensation plan, and employee performance evaluations. 

 

Creates and oversees human resource practices, programs, and objectives that provide for an employee-oriented culture that emphasizes collaboration, innovation, creativity, and knowledge transfer within a diverse team. 

   

Oversees the day-to-day administrative aspects of the Board’s personnel programs; accuracy of bi-monthly payrolls; benefits; quarterly and annual EEO/AA reporting; and, employee transaction documentation. 

  

Facilitates professional development, training, and certification activities for staff; development and maintenance of agency-wide training programs for on-boarding, staff development, and knowledge transfer. 

 

Responsible for the administration and oversight over all disciplinary matters; including: investigation of complaints; conducting witness interviews; documentation gathering; drafting and submittal of investigation findings to Executive Staff; advising Division Directors and Executive Staff on disciplinary matters; and, drafting of formal disciplinary reprimands in accordance with policy. 

 

Has administrative oversight of the Chief Fiscal Officer regarding budgetary and fiscal matters under the purview of the Division of Administrative Services. 

   

Supervises and evaluates subordinate staff; facilitates knowledge transfers and cross trainings; performs other duties as required or assigned which are reasonably within the scope of the duties enumerated above. 

 

 

Requires Bachelors degree in Human Resources, Business Administration, or related field. Requires five (5) years of managerial human resource experience. A thorough knowledge of human resource practices, policies, laws, and regulations.


Preferred Qualifications: Master’s degree in Human Resources, Business Administration, Public
Administration, or related field. SHRM certification (CP or SCP).









8:00 am - 4:30 pm
State Board of Elections
2329 S. MacArthur Blvd.
Springfield, IL 62704
       

Danielle Martinez
Human Resource Manager
217-782-1527
DMartinez@elections.il.gov

The SBE is a non-code agency and DOES NOT accept CMS-100 applications.

Click here to download a State Board of Elections Employment Application (Download PDF reader).

Please complete the application and resume and mail or email to:
Illinois State Board of Elections
Attn: Danielle Martinez
2329 S. MacArthur Blvd.
Springfield, IL 62704
DMartinez@elections.il.gov

Fax to: 217-558-5401


Applications must be submitted no later than 4:00pm on Tuesday, September 20th, 2022. Applications submitted beyond this time will not be accepted.

BENEFITS FOR STATE EMPLOYEESState of Illinois employees may be eligible for a variety of benefits associated with their employment. From a comprehensive health and dental insurance program, to vacation and sick leave days and a generous retirement plan, the State of Illinois offers a competitive benefits program for state employees. To learn more about the benefits of state employment, please explore the links below:Healthcare Benefits:The State offers its employees a comprehensive health and dental program along with a wide array of supplemental insurance programs. Illinois has long been committed to providing employees with the best possible insurance benefits at the greatest possible value.Retirement Benefits:In addition to health and dental insurance programs, state employees are offered a generous pension program with options that can be tailored to meet employees' needs.Workplace Benefits:State employees may also be eligible for other benefits such as holidays, annual leave and sick leave.Visit our Illinois Benefits website to see a more detailed summary of other benefits which are available to state employees.Note: The above benefits are available to most state employees with the exception of those in temporary positions. Employees in temporary, part-time and student worker positions may be eligible for all, some or none of these benefits.