=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Election Cycle Temp - Elections
Salary: $41,600.00 - $41,600.00 YEAR
Location: Coolidge AZ 85128, AZ, AZ, 85132
Employer: Pinal County
Employment Type: TEMPORARY
Date Posted: 2022-09-23
Job Type: Temporary
Job Number: 202200450
Department: Elections
Opening Date: 09/23/2022
Closing Date: 3/13/2023 8:00 AM Arizona

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===




 
With over 2000 employees working in more than 1000 different roles across over 30 departments, there's sure to be a position for YOU, whether you're just starting out or you’re a seasoned pro. And when you work for Pinal County, you'll have access to a wide range of benefits such as comprehensive healthcare options and unmatched retirement plans that are the best in Arizona.
 
Interested in this role? We would love to have you apply even if you don't necessarily meet every requirement - we're looking for great people in Pinal County, not those who can check the boxes.  
 
Read more about our role and see if it is a good match for you:  


JOB SUMMARY
Under supervision, performs the basic duties of Voter Registration and Early Voting during the election cycle as required by state statute for the Recorder's Office. This position is not covered under the Pinal County Merit System. Incumbents in this position serve at the pleasure of their respective Appointing Authority. The employment relationship of incumbents in this position is "at will" the employee may be terminated at any time, for any reason, with or without cause.
 
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS:
The hiring salary for this position is dependent upon experience, qualifications and position funding; starting salaries above the first quartile require additional approval. 

Work in this classification requires an individual to be able to perform the essential job functions satisfactorily. Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable individuals with disabilities to perform the primary classification functions herein described. Since every duly associated with this classification may not be described herein, employees may be required to perform duties not specifically spelled out in this classification description, but which may be reasonably considered to be incidental in the performing of their duties just as though they were actually written out in this description.

TYPICAL CLASSIFICATION ESSENTIAL DUTIES:

Accepts and distributes various forms related to Elections including Voter Registration Forms and Early Ballots.
Processes registration forms and issues Voter Identification Cards to registered voters in Pinal County.
Receives early ballot information from active voters.
Prepares and processes early ballots for in office voters and mailings.
Reviews early ballot affidavits for inclusion of signature.
Verifies signatures on returned early ballots.
Verifies signatures and addresses for petitions received from the Arizona Secretary of State's Office. Performs standard data entry, receives incoming mail, and scans documents.
Reviews all registration forms for completion and notifies voters of incomplete or damaged forms. Provide customer service to the voters of Pinal County by answering general question on the phone or in person; assist voters in which forms to complete and early voting process.
Verifies signatures on petitions and provisional/conditional ballots within specified timeframes as required by Arizona Revise Statutes.
Receives non-deliverable voter identification cards and verifies correct address if applicable, generates confirmation letters for distribution and maintains voter registration log.
Maintains absolute confidentiality of work-related issues, customer records and restricted County information; performs related duties as required or assigned.

POSITION SPECIFIC DUTIES:

Clerical Work
Perform office and general routine clerical work.  Under close supervision of assigned Manager.
 
Answer telephone calls, screen calls, and route to appropriate individuals.
Compile information and sort documents.
Create files and office record labels.
Enter data in the poll worker database and spreadsheets.
Receive and distribute correspondence, sort, index, file, and retrieve forms and documents.
Maintain absolute confidentiality of work-related issues, poll worker, candidate, and campaign finance records, and restricted County information.
Copy and scan documents in preparation for election boards and polling place locations.
Administrative Assistant duties

Warehouse Work
Perform stocking, lifting, and moving materials and equipment in a warehouse environment.  Under close supervision of Deputy Director of Logistics and Operations.
 
Stock election supply cages with election materials and equipment.
Maintain cleanliness of warehouse and work area.
Count, sort, and distribute supplies to assigned polling place supply cages.
Load and unload materials and equipment scheduled for deployment to poll sites and upon return.
Move, push, and lift equipment and boxes in a warehouse environment up to 50 pounds.
General warehouse worker duties



Knowledge, Skills and Abilities:

Applicable Federal regulations, Arizona Revised Statutes, and Election Laws, including ARS Title 16, and the National Voter Registration Act of 1993.
Recorder's Office policies, procedures and regulations, and the Arizona Secretary of State Procedures Manual.
Imaging production equipment, techniques and quality standards.
Official record keeping practices, and customer service standards and protocols.
Properly processing a variety of technical documents.
Understanding and applying relevant Federal and State laws, rules, regulations, and County policies.
Operating computer systems and basic software applications.
Providing effective customer service, and dealing tactfully and courteously with the public.
PHYSICAL DEMANDS:
Independent body mobility to stand, walk, bend, and sit for prolonged periods of time and/or drive a vehicle. Manual dexterity to reach, and grasp; manual dexterity to hand write or use computer keyboard; vision sufficient to see/read; hear and speak to communicate with customers in person and over the phone.
WORK ENVIRONMENT:
Position is located in an indoor office environment.