=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Assistant Registrar of Voters
Salary: $115,179.46 - $161,267.04 YEAR
Location: or out-of state, CA, CA, 93009
Employer: Ventura County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2023-09-01
Job Type: At-Will
Job Number: 0188CCR-23AA (MM)
Department: Clerk and Recorder
Division: Elections
Opening Date: 09/01/2023
Closing Date: 11/7/2023 5:00 PM Pacific

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Click on this link to view the brochure for this opportunity.


WHAT WE OFFER
The County of Ventura offers an attractive compensation and benefits package. In addition to the salary of approximately $115,179.46 to $161,267.04 annually an employee within this position will also be eligible for the following:
 
A general salary increase of 4.0% effective December 24, 2023 and 3.5% effective December 22, 2024.
Educational Incentive - An educational incentive of 2.5% for completion of an associate's degree, 3.5% for completion of a bachelor's degree, OR 5% for completion of a graduate's degree.
Bilingual Incentive - Incumbents may also be eligible for bilingual incentive depending upon operational needs and certification skills.
Executive Administrative Leave - The candidate selected for this position will earn 248 hours per year, increasing to 288 hours after 5 years of service, to 328 hours after 10 years of service, and to 368 hours after 15 years of service or other public service.
*Credit for prior public service may be considered (Management Resolution, § 1202A) 
Annual Leave Redemption - The ability to “cash in” or redeem up to 100 hours of Annual Leave per year after using 80 hours of annual leave within the previous 12 months (Management Resolution, § 1205).
Deferred Compensation - Eligible to participate in the County's 401(k) Shared Savings Plan and/or the Section 457 Plan. This position is eligible for up to a 3% match on your 401(k) contributions.
Health Insurance Plans – Medical, dental, and vision plans for you and your dependents. A flexible credit allowance of up to $21,450 annually.
Flexible Spending Accounts - Increase your spending power by reimbursement with pre-taxed dollars for IRS-approved dependent care and health care expenses.
Holidays - 12 paid days per year which includes a scheduled floating holiday.
Pension Plan - Both you and the County contribute to the County’s Retirement Plan. If you are eligible, you may establish reciprocity with other public retirement systems, such as PERS.
Additional Benefits - Professional Memberships, Disability Plans, Employee Assistance Program, Life Insurance, Tuition Reimbursement, Wellness Program.


To learn more about this exciting opportunity and what we have to offer, please click this link to be taken directly to the brochure: Assistant Registrar of Voters


For more information about the County Clerk Recorder and Registrar of Voters Office, please visit https://recorder.countyofventura.org/
 
TENTATIVE SCHEDULE
Opening Date: September 1, 2023

Closing Date: Open until filled
First Review of Resumes: The first review of resumes is anticipated to begin September 18, 2023. If you are interested in this exciting opportunity, please submit your cover letter and resume in advance of the review date.

To apply for this exceptional career opportunity, please send a resume and a cover letter that illustrates examples of your experience with all of the following:
 
Your supervisory/management experience in an elections office
Your experience with federal and state statutes governing the elections process
Your experience with elections operations, policies and procedures
Your experience with budgeting, organizational planning, and personnel management

 
If you are interested in this opportunity to serve the citizens of the County of Ventura, you may do one of the following:

E-mail your current resume and cover letter to: Monika.Maine@ventura.org

OR
Submit an online application at www.ventura.org/jobs and attach your current resume and cover letter.

Resume Evaluation
A first review of resumes will begin September 18, 2023. All relevant work experience, training and education need to be included to determine eligibility.
 
Interview Process
Following a structured evaluation of the resumes, the most qualified candidates will be invited to a panel interview. The top candidates, as determined by the panel, will then be invited to a second interview with County executive management. The interviews may be consolidated into one process or expanded into multiple interviews contingent upon the size and quantity of the candidate pool.
 
Background Investigation
The selected candidate may be subjected to a thorough background investigation which may include inquiry into past employment, education, criminal background information, and driving record. In addition, the successful candidate may be subjected to Live Scan fingerprinting.
 
For further information about this recruitment, please contact Monika Maine by email Monika.Maine@ventura.org or by telephone at (805) 654-2419.
 
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
The County of Ventura is an equal opportunity employer to all, regardless of age, ancestry, color, disability (mental and physical), exercising the right to family care and medical leave, gender, gender expression, gender identity, genetic information, marital status, medical condition, military or veteran status, national origin, political affiliation, race, religious creed, sex (includes pregnancy, childbirth, breastfeeding, and related medical conditions), and sexual orientation.

YOUR BENEFITS AS A COUNTY OF VENTURA EMPLOYEEEXECUTIVE AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT LEVEL (Groups 1 & 2)To learn more about Benefits, Retirement, and the Memorandum of Agreement (MOA), see links below.	Benefits website  or you may call (805) 654-2570.	Retirement FAQ's (Download PDF reader)	Memorandum of Agreement Union Codes: MA, MB2