=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: UPDATED- Clerk-Recorder Division Manager
Salary: $82,275.38 - $132,491.32 YEAR
Location: Ventura and may require travel throughout Ventura County, CA, CA, 93009
Employer: Ventura County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2023-09-19
Job Type: Full-Time Regular
Job Number: 1709CCR-23AC (LC)
Department: County Clerk-Recorder (Recruitment by CEO-HR)
Opening Date: 09/19/2023
Closing Date: 11/27/2023 5:00 PM Pacific

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===


***Please note the Typical Qualifications Section was updated on November 3, 2023.***

THE DEPARTMENT
The County Clerk-Recorder, Registrar of Voters is an elective office with three divisions: The County Clerk, Recorder, and Elections (Registrar of Voters).

COUNTY CLERK
The County Clerk issues marriage licenses, performs civil marriage ceremonies, processes fictitious business name filings, and provides for the qualification and registration of notaries, process servers and miscellaneous statutory oaths and other filings. All functions of the office are conducted under provisions of the State Constitution and County Codes.

RECORDER
The Recorder is responsible for the recording of deeds, deeds of trust, court decrees and other documents affecting title to real property in Ventura County. The division also maintains Uniform Commercial Code filings: subdivision maps and, vital statistics including birth, death and marriages within the county. This Division also creates digital images of real property and vital records and provides and maintains an efficient retrieval system to support public access to this information.  All functions of the office are conducted under provisions of the State Constitution and County Codes.

ELECTIONS
The Elections Division conducts all Federal, State, County, school and special district elections in the County, as well as the general municipal elections for all 10 Ventura County cities. It administers voter registration and outreach programs, maintains the master voter file, master office and incumbent file, and master street index. The division also processes all voted ballots, as well as the layout and proofing of all sample ballots, official ballots, and voter information materials. Other essential responsibilities include; establishing precinct boundaries and polling place locations, recruiting and training vote center workers, maintaining tests and distributing voting equipment and conducting the official election canvass.

THE POSITION
Under general direction of the Assistant County Clerk and Recorder, the Clerk Recorder Division Manager plans, organizes, administers, supervises and directs the activities of the County Clerk and Recorder Division of the County Clerk and Recorder’s office which includes the main office at the Government Center in Ventura and satellite East County office in Thousand Oaks; and performs related work as required.

The ideal candidate is a dedicated public servant who possesses solid administrative leadership skills, the highest integrity, and a strong work ethic that includes accountability for oneself and others. A well-qualified candidate will have thorough knowledge of and experience in implementing federal, state, and local statutes, regulations, and guidelines applicable to a public agency’s operations. Additionally, they should possess strong analytical and budgetary skills that are applicable to contribute to the management team of a California public agency. Other qualities needed to be a successful candidate include detail-oriented, customer-service focused, striving for efficiency and continuous improvement.

Distinguishing Characteristics:
The Clerk Recorder Division Manager reports directly to the Assistant County Clerk and Recorder and has primary responsibility for planning and administering the daily operations of the Clerk and Recorder Division of the County Clerk and Recorder’s Office.

Payroll Title: 
Staff/Services Manager I:  $3,164.44 - $4,430.65
Staff/Services Manager II:  $3,392.80 - $4,750.38
Staff/Services Manager III:  $3,639.51 - $5,095.82

Duties may include, but are not limited to the following:


Plans, organizes, administers, supervises and directs the activities of the Clerk and Recorder Divisions of the County Clerk and Recorder’s office.
Assists in formulating policies and procedures for carrying out the goals and objectives of the Divisions. Suggests and implements changes in methods and procedures to improve operations.
Assists in the interpretation and implementation of laws, rules, regulations, codes and ordinances related to document recording, vital record management, marriage licenses, civil marriage ceremonies, fictitious business name statements, notary public registrations, and related functions.
Reviews and analyzes proposed new legislation to determine impact, makes recommendations and provides direction for the implementation of changes.
Directs all aspects of the document recording process including acceptance, examining, recording, imaging, indexing, data storage and retrieval.   
Directs all aspects of the Clerk function, including marriage license issuances, civil marriage ceremonies, fictitious business name statement filings, and notary public registrations.
Directs all aspects of vital records management for the Divisions.
Responds to questions from the public, news media and other agencies and entities concerning Clerk and Recorder matters, policies and procedures.
Determines personnel requirements to meet varying workloads and oversees the recruitment, selection, training, evaluation, discipline and termination of employees as needed.
Provides oversight and ongoing analysis of various electronic and information processing systems utilized by the Divisions and makes recommendations for changes, upgrades and/or enhancements to ensure the continued utilization and efficiency of those systems. 
Stays informed of current and emerging technology trends and promotes technology advancements to improve operations and customer service.
Prepares management reports related to the effective operations of the Divisions, including technology, staffing, equipment and forecasted requirements.
Attends conferences of associations, boards, commissions and related groups; participates in Clerk and Recorder Association activities and workshops.
Represents the County Clerk and Recorder at conferences and meetings and speaks to various groups regarding Clerk and Recorder related matters.
Acts as liaison with state, county, city and local entities with regard to Clerk and Recorder matters.
May act on behalf of the County Clerk and Recorder and/or Assistant County Clerk and Recorder in their absence.
Performs other related duties as required.

These are entrance requirements to the examination process and assure neither continuance in the process nor placement on an eligible list. 

EDUCATION, TRAINING, and EXPERIENCE:
Some (Staff/Service Manager I/II) to considerable (Staff/Services Manager III) managerial, administrative or supervisory experience which has led to the acquisition of the required knowledge, skills, and abilities.

The required knowledge, skills, and abilities also can be obtained by:
 
Staff/Services Manager I:
Three (3) or more years of administrative support, supervision or management, or specific operations experience including at least six (6) months of experience directly supervising staff.
 
Staff/Services Manager II:
Three (3) or more years of administrative support, supervision or management, or specific operations experience including one (1) year of experience directly supervising staff.
 
Staff/Services Manager III:
 Five (5) or more years of administrative support, supervision or management, or specific operations experience including two (2) years' experience directly supervising staff.
 
(Previously: Necessary Special Requirements:)

Experience must have been primarily obtained while working in a County Clerk and/or Recorder's office or similar recordation agency.
Experience must have included staff development and training over the full legal document recordation process.
Desired   (UPDATED AS OF NOVEMBER 3, 2023):
Bachelor’s degree in business, public administration, or a related field
Experience using the Tyler Eagle Recorder and/or Eagle Clerk solutions
Experience obtained while working in a County Clerk and/or Recorder's office or similar recordation agency is desirable.
Experience in staff development and training over the full legal document recordation process is desirable. 

KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, and ABILITIES:
 
Thorough knowledge of: local government organization and functions; federal, state, and local codes and procedures pertaining to the County Clerk and Recorder's functions; office operations, policies and procedures; statutory requirements for recording official documents, issuing and recording marriages licenses and other official documents; legal terminology required in recording work; modern office management principles and practices; principles and techniques of effective public and media relations; legislative process that pertains to the California Clerks’ and Recorders’ Associations.
 
Thorough ability to: plan, coordinate and supervise the work of the County Clerk and Recorder Division; establish and maintain cooperative and effective working relationships; communicate effectively in situations requiring sensitivity, counseling, tact, persuasion, instruction and negotiations; analyze data and compose clear, concise and complete reports; utilize computer applications, programs and equipment to effectively gather, maintain and report data; analyze and interpret complex statistical and other data; interpret and explain existing, new and changing laws governing the activities and documentation of the Clerk and Recorder Division; resolve difficult, complex and technical recordation issues.

FILING DATE:  Applications must be received by County of Ventura Human Resources no later than 5:00 p.m. on Monday, November 27, 2023.

(PREVIOUSLY: This is a continuous recruitment and may close at any time; therefore, apply as soon as possible if you are interested in it. Your application must be received by County of Ventura Human Resources in Ventura, California, no later than 5:00 p.m. on the closing date. 
Previously: Applications must be received by County of Ventura Human Resources no later than 5:00 p.m. on September 29, 2023.)
 
To apply on-line, please refer to our web site at www.ventura.org/jobs.  A paper application can be obtained by calling (805) 654-5129.  Our address is County of Ventura Human Resources, 800 South Victoria Avenue, L-1970, Ventura, CA 93009.
 
Note to Applicants: Sufficient information must be provided under the Education/Work Experience portion of the application and supplemental questionnaire to thoroughly and accurately demonstrate your qualifications to determine eligibility.  A resume may be attached to supplement your responses in the above-referenced sections; however, it may not be submitted in lieu of the application.
 
SUPPLEMENTAL QUESTIONNAIRE – qualifying
All applicants are required to complete and submit the questionnaire for this examination at the time of filing. This questionnaire may be used throughout the examination process to assist in determining each applicant's qualifications and acceptability for the position. Failure to complete and submit the questionnaire may result in the application being removed from further consideration.
 
APPLICATION EVALUATION – qualifying
All applications will be reviewed to determine whether or not the stated requirements are met. Applicants meeting the stated requirements will be invited to continue to the next step in the screening and selection process.
 
TRAINING & EXPERIENCE EVALUATION 
A Training and Experience Evaluation (T&E) is a structured evaluation of the job application materials submitted by a candidate, including the written responses to the supplemental questionnaire. The T&E is NOT a determination of whether the candidate meets the stated requirements; rather, the T&E is one method for determining who are the better qualified among those who have shown that they meet the stated requirements. In a T&E, applications are either scored or rank ordered according to criteria that most closely meet the business needs of the department. Candidates are typically scored/ranked in relation to one another; consequently, when the pool of candidates is exceptionally strong, many qualified candidates may receive a score or rank which is moderate or even low resulting in them not being advanced in the process.
 
NOTE: The selection process will likely consist of an Oral Exam, which may be preceded or replaced with the score from a Training and Experience Evaluation (T&E), contingent upon the size and quality of the candidate pool. In a typical T&E, your training and experience are evaluated in relation to the background, experience and factors identified for successful job performance during a job analysis. For this reason, it is recommended that your application materials clearly show your relevant background and specialized knowledge, skills, and abilities. It is also highly recommended that the supplemental questions within the application are completed with care and diligence.
 
ORAL EXAMINATION - 100%
A job-related Oral Examination may be conducted to evaluate and compare participating candidates' knowledge, skills, and abilities in relation to those factors which job analysis has determined to be essential for successful performance of the job. Candidates must earn a score of seventy percent (70%) or higher to qualify for placement on the eligible list.
 
NOTE:  If there are three (3) or fewer qualified applicants, an oral exam will not be conducted. Instead, a score of seventy percent (70%) will be assigned to each application, and each applicant will be placed on the eligible list.
 
The eligible list established from this recruitment may be used to fill current and future Regular (including Temporary and Fixed-term) vacancies within the County Clerk and Recorder's Office for this and similar positions only.  There is currently one (1) Regular vacancy.
 
Candidates successfully completing the exam process may be placed on an eligible list for a period of one (1) year.
 
BACKGROUND INVESTIGATION
A thorough pre-employment, post offer background investigation which may include inquiry into past employment, education, criminal background information, and driving record may be required for this position.
 
For further information about this recruitment, please contact Lorin Calderon by email at lorin.calderon@ventura.org or by telephone at (805) 654-2959.
 
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
The County of Ventura is an equal opportunity employer to all, regardless of age, ancestry, color, disability (mental and physical), exercising the right to family care and medical leave, gender, gender expression, gender identity, genetic information, marital status, medical condition, military or veteran status, national origin, political affiliation, race, religious creed, sex (includes pregnancy, childbirth, breastfeeding and related medical conditions), and sexual orientation.

YOUR BENEFITS AS A COUNTY OF VENTURA EMPLOYEEMANAGEMENT To learn more about Benefits, Retirement, and the Memorandum of Agreement (MOA), see links below.	Benefits website  or you may call (805) 654-2570.	Retirement FAQ's (Download PDF reader)	Memorandum of Agreement Union Codes: MB3, MB4, MS, MT, MCC, MU


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Describe your progressively responsible experience providing administrative oversight, management, or overseeing specific operations/programs. In your response include:

a.) Name of employer(s) where you gained this experience

b.) Job title(s) held

c.) Any experience in a County Clerk and/or Recorder's office or similar recordation agency within this capacity


If you do not have this experience, type "no experience."
        
        
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Describe your supervision experience. Include the following details:

a) Employer Name

b) Time Frame

c) Your Title and Description of Duties

d) Number of Employee Supervised and whether you completed performance evaluations

e) Staff development and training over the full legal document recordation process 

If you do not have this type of experience, please state, "no experience."
        
        
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Describe your professional experience collaborating with multiple levels of a department or agency and various other organizations to achieve objectives. In your response include:

a.) Employer(s) where you obtained this experience

b.) Specific examples of objectives and how they were achieved

If you do not have this kind of experience, type "no experience."
        
        
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Please describe your experience using computer software such as MS Office Word, Excel and databases to create documents, generate reports and /or process work. Provide an example of a report you have created using these tools.

If you have any experience using the Tyler Eagle Recorder and/or Eagle Clerk solutions or a similar system, please indicate that in your response. 

If you do not have this kind of experience, please type "No experience."
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        