=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Communications Officer
Salary: $57,749.00 - $89,511.00 YEAR
Location: Monroe, NC, NC, 28112
Employer: Union County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2023-09-06
Job Type: Full-Time Regular
Job Number: 405008
Department: Board of Elections
Opening Date: 09/07/2023

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

The Communications Officer, under limited supervision and with a high level of collaboration, administers outreach and communications activities on a countywide basis for the Union County Board of Elections office. Must demonstrate initiative, good judgment, nonpartisanship, and the ability to express thoughts clearly and simply. Employee must also exercise considerable tact and courtesy in frequent contact with candidates, elected officials, staff, media, other governmental departments, and the general public. 

Responds to department specific public records requests. Oversees the redaction of forms and documents and ensures compliance with North Carolina General Statutes and North Carolina Board of Elections directives.

 

Develop a variety of informational materials, presentations, newsletters, brochures, and other materials, as needed. 

 

Provides content and updates departmental website pages.

 

Creates and manages social media posts through a variety of social media platforms.

 

Facilities live streaming of board meetings, oversees audio visual needs, and creates videos and photos.

 

Collaborates with Public Communications to manage crisis issues communications and other media relations activities. 

 

Assists in planning, developing, and attending voter outreach and education campaigns and events. 

 

Researches, develops, writes and/or edits communications material to strategically manage and assist the public’s understanding of policies, programs, and services. 

 

Monitors department email inquiries and formulates responses, assigned to appropriate staff, and provides resolution or follows up.

 

Monitors news, social media, and other government entities for matters related to department.

 

Maintains a safe and positive work environment in compliance with all County policies and standards.

 

Performs other related duties as assigned.

MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

Education and Experience:

Bachelor’s Degree from an accredited university in Communications, Public Relations, Journalism, Mass Media Communications, Graphic Design, or related field, and five (5) years of professional related experience involving marketing and communications; or equivalent combination of education and experience. 

 

Licenses or Certifications:

Must have a valid Driver's License and be able to maintain a safe driving history as defined by the Union County Vehicle Use Policy.

 

Special Requirements: 

Work schedules can be irregular and frequently interrupted. Schedules often have to be rearranged so that the employee can meet deadlines, attend meetings and community activities, or travel. Must be able to work on the development and management of multiple concurrent projects.

 

Must be able to work on the development and management of multiple concurrent projects.  

Must be familiar with design software and technologies.




PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS




Special Requirements: 

Knowledge of and experience in Adobe Creative Cloud, Microsoft Publisher, and Graphic Design.

PHYSICAL DEMANDS

Must be physically able to operate a variety of machinery and equipment including video/digital recording and editing, audio recording and editing computers, printers, calculators, fax machines, copiers, etc. Must be physically able to operate a motor vehicle. Must be physically able to exert a negligible amount of force frequently or constantly to lift, carry, push, pull, or otherwise move objects. Sedentary work involves sitting most of the time, but may involve walking or standing for brief periods of time.




WORK ENVIRONMENT

Work is performed in a safe and secure work environment that may periodically have unpredicted requirements or demands.

INSURANCE PROGRAMS HEALTH INSURANCEAll full-time employees and their eligible dependents can participate on the first day of the first full month of employment. You must sign up for coverage within your first 30 days of employment or wait until the annual enrollment period. Health Reimbursement Account Preventative Care Coverage Prescription Coverage Vision CoverageDENTAL INSURANCE All full-time employees and their eligible dependents can participate on the first day of the first full month of employment. You must sign up for coverage within your first 30 days of employment or wait until the annual enrollment period.LIFE INSURANCE Basic Term life Insurance in the amount of one times the annual salary is provided for all full-time and benefitted part-time employees. Additional coverage is available for purchase through payroll deduction for the employee and eligible dependents.FINANCIAL PROGRAMS RETIREMENT Membership in the North Carolina Local Government Employees Retirement System is a requirement for all full-time and benefitted part-time employees. Employees contribute six percent (6%) of their annual compensation before it is taxed. If you leave County service before retirement, you may withdraw your retirement contributions or elect to freeze your contributions in anticipation of future local government employment. If you have five (5) years of service, you are 100% vested in the NCLGERS. NC401(k)The NC401(k) supplemental retirement program is available to full-time and benefitted part-time employees. The County establishes this 401(k) account for each eligible employee and makes a five percent (5%) contribution based on biweekly earnings. Employees may elect to make voluntary contributions through payroll deduction.457 DEFERRED COMPENSATIONThe 457 Deferred Compensation program is available to all employees through payroll deduction. Deferred compensation is a voluntary investment plan to supplement retirement income and to defer taxable income. FLEXIBLE SPENDING ACCOUNTS Options are available to regular full-time and benefitted part-time employees who wish to use pre-tax dollars for eligible medical, pharmacy, dental, vision, and daycare expenses. The Flex Debit Card program gives you instant access to your account funds.Health Care Spending Account -- Section 125 of the IRS Code allows yearly voluntary enrollment to set aside pre-tax dollars for eligible health care expenses.Dependent Care Spending Account -- Section 125 of the IRS Code allows yearly voluntary enrollment to set aside pre-tax dollars for eligible dependent care expenses.DIRECT DEPOSIT Deposit of your paycheck will be made to checking or savings accounts in a bank of your choice.CREDIT UNION Local Government Federal Credit Union membership is available to all employees. Once you join, you can remain a member for as long as you choose. Immediate family members such as: spouse, children, stepchildren, brothers, sisters and parents can all become members.TRUISTNo Overdraft Fees$100 Negative Balance BufferOnline and Mobile Banking with Bill PayLEAVE PROGRAMS VACATION LEAVE Vacation leave is accrued based on creditable years of service in the Local Government Employees Retirement System.SICK LEAVE For full-time County employees, sick leave accrues at eight (8.0) hours per month. Benefitted part-time employees accrue prorated sick leave based on a percentage of the full-time rate. Your unused sick leave balance can be applied as creditable service toward a service retirement under the guidelines of the NCLGERS.SICK LEAVE TRANSFER FROM OTHER AGENCIES Unused sick leave earned from another North Carolina Governmental Agency and/or entity, will be accepted and transferred to the County as follows: twelve (12) sick leave days will be transferred and added to the employees active sick leave balance after completion of six (6) months of employment. The remaining balance of sick leave documented for transfer at the time of employment will be recorded in the employees permanent personnel file. On the fifth anniversary of employment with the County, the remaining balance of transferred sick leave will be added to the employees active sick leave balance.HOLIDAYS There are 12 County recognized holidays per year with 1 floating holiday available.MILITARY LEAVE Annual Training - 10 paid workdays granted.Active Duty - 20 paid workdays granted.CIVIL LEAVE Paid leave is provided to full-time or regular part-time County employees called for jury duty or as a witness of the court for the federal or state government, or a subdivision thereof.FAMILY & MEDICAL LEAVE ACT Federal law provides job protection and continuation of existing paid health insurance during 12 weeks of leave, paid or unpaid, to an eligible employee for qualifying events. These events can include birth or adoption, and serious illness of an immediate family member, or of the employee.PAID PARENTAL LEAVEParental Leave provides the employee paid leave for the first eight weeks of approved FML for the birth of a son or daughter, or placement with the employee of a son or daughter for adoption or foster care.ADMINISTRATIVE LEAVE Educational Leave is available to regular full-time and benefitted part-time employees when participating in a job-related, short course, such as an update, not to exceed ten (10) consecutive working days. VOLUNTEER TIME OFFVolunteer Time Off will provide employes with 16 hours of paid time per calender year to volunteer at approved Union County community partner agencies. OTHER PROGRAMS EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM The Employee Assistance Program is open to all employees and their dependents. It is a confidential service provided at no cost to the employees of the County. EAP provides certified counselors who administer assessment and brief therapy to employees who want help with a variety of personal and work-related issues such as stress, parenting concerns, grief, alcohol/drug use, family problems, financial concerns, and work-related problems.AQUATIC AND FITNESS CENTER We believe that staying healthy is more than just exercising regularly and eating well. Individual and family discount membership and monthly dues are available to full-time and benefitted part-time employees through payroll deduction.NATIONAL COLLEGE SAVINGS PROGRAM The National College Savings Program is open to all employees. The Program is designed to provide certain tax advantages, encourage and facilitate saving to pay the costs of attending eligible institutions. 


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Do you have a Bachelor's degree from a 4-year college or university?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        What makes you the best fit for this position?
        
        
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Do you have at least five years experience in this field?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Describe your experience in marketing and/or communications.
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        