=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Departmental Analyst 12 - Filing &amp; Canvassing Section
Salary: $57,553.60 - $84,115.20 YEAR
Location: Lansing, MI, MI, 48909
Employer: State of Michigan
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2023-10-08
Job Type: Permanent Full Time
Remote Employment: Flexible/Hybrid
Job Number: 2301-23-BOE013
Department: Department of State
Opening Date: 10/09/2023
Closing Date: 10/23/2023 11:59 PM Eastern
Bargaining Unit: NON-EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTED EMPLOYEE (NERE)

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===


 
POSITION DUTIES - This position serves as the Financial Disclosure and Lobby Filings Analyst within the Filing and Canvassing Section within the within the Bureau of Elections, Michigan Department of State. This position is the recognized resource responsible for administering and enforcing the most complex financial disclosure as required in Article IV, Section 10 of the State Constitution, Lobbyist Registration Act, and Michigan Election Law. The Analyst will support the Division’s functions by developing the program, reporting materials, and manage procurement of software, form creation and other documentation. The position will prepare communications including web pages, and instructional materials for those individuals regulated by the State Constitution and statute. The position will implement the program through research and analysis of disclosure reports, personal finance statements, and lobby expenditure reports, with emphasis on working to address deficiencies and correct noncompliant filings and take enforcement actions when required. This position will also develop training materials on the processes and user manuals; and provide training to the regulated community.
 
Position Description - Departmental Analyst 12 (Download PDF reader)

APPOINTMENT TYPE/BENEFITS - This position is Full-Time. Therefore, you would be eligible to participate in the benefits offered by the state.

This position has the potential to work a hybrid/remote work schedule.


MDOSJOBS

Education
Possession of a bachelor's degree in any major.

Experience
Three years of professional experience, including one year of experience equivalent to the experienced (P11) level in state service.

Accommodations
If you require a reasonable accommodation to participate in the application or selection processes, please contact the ADA coordinator (Download PDF reader) for the agency that posted this position vacancy.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Are you related to anyone currently working at the Department of State (Secretary of State)?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        If you answered "yes" to question #1, please list the name of each relative. If you answered "no" to question #1, please enter "none".
        
        
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Please list all previous names, to include name at birth, and any alias name(s) used. If you do not have any previous/alias names to list, please enter "none".
        
        
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        DEPTALT - Do you possess one of the following?  

A bachelor's degree or higher in any major.  If so, please attach a copy of your official college transcripts;

OR

at least one year of professional level experience in the state of Michigan classified service.
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        DEPTALTA- Do you possess at least three years of professional experience?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have interpreting rules, statute, or policy?
        
        
                None
                Less than 1 year
                1 to 3 years
                3 to 5 years
                5 or more years
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Please describe your experience interpreting rules, statute, or policy. If you do not possess this experience, please enter "none".
        
        
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Please describe your experience working with state or local public officials. If you do not possess this experience, please type "none".
        
        
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have researching, writing and editing procedures, manuals and correspondence?
        
        
                None
                Less than 1 year
                1 to 3 years
                3 to 5 years
                More than 5 years
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        Please describe your experience researching, writing and editing procedures, manuals and correspondence. If you do not possess this experience, please enter "none".
        
        
        
    


    
        

11

    

    
        Are you a current BOE Employee or contractor?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

12

    

    
        Did you remember to attach your resume, cover letter, and official transcripts (if applicable)?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

13

    

    
        Did you attach a writing sample to your application? Failure to do so may result in your application being removed from the selections process.
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        