=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Election Outreach Administrator or Senior Outreach Administrator
Salary: $49,589.28 - $81,769.74 YEAR
Location: 80120, CO, CO, 80120
Employer: Arapahoe County
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2023-10-12
Job Type: Full-time
Job Number: 05558
Department: Clerk and Recorder's Office
Division: Elections
Opening Date: 10/13/2023
Closing Date: 10/27/2023 5:00 PM Mountain

BENEFITS:
  • Medical, Dental, and Vision Insurance
  • Life and Supplemental Life Insurance
  • Short and Long Term Disability
  • Mandatory Pension Plan
  • Deferred Compensation Plan
  • Pre-paid Legal Services
  • Vacation and Sick Leaves
  • Holiday pay
  • Training and Educational Reimbursement Opportunities

For a more detailed listing of our benefit programs, click on the MENU link on the left and then Benefits Summary.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Election Outreach Administrator
The Election Outreach Administrator performs specialized level administrative, and professional work in carrying out a comprehensive public facing service operation. This position specifically leads and supports all areas of community outreach including voter education materials, judge training, coordinating various voter programs and partnering with designated election officials and the partner community at large.

Senior Outreach Administrator
The Senior Outreach Administrator performs senior level administrative, and professional work in carrying out a comprehensive public facing service operation. This position specifically leads and supports all areas of community outreach including voter education materials, judge training, coordinating various voter programs and partnering with designated election officials and the partner community at large.

NOTE:

The anticipated hiring range for our Election Outreach Administrator is between $1,907.28 and $2,859.10 biweekly depending on qualifications.
The anticipated hiring range for our Senior Outreach Administrator is between $2,096.66 and $3,144.99 biweekly depending on qualifications.




Election Outreach Administrator
1. Supports, and ensures statutory compliance of community service functions including election notices, ballot envelope inserts, election forms & signage, public notice letters and similar mailings pertaining to the voter and election service teams.

2. Responsible for leading and supporting all areas of election judge operations by assisting with recruitment, hiring and payroll timekeeping.

3. Coordinates with United States Postal Service the Election printing needs, which may include but is not limited to postage accounts, ballot mail piece design and layout, mail ballot packet approval and provides mailing timelines to the General Mail Facility staff.

4. Coordinates with County Communications and the community in organizing, marketing, and developing the “I Voted Sticker” contest program and the overall management of the Election Division website, ArapahoeVotes.com.

5. Serves as support and a point of contact for coordinating ballot content, petitions, candidate information and TABOR information with municipalities, school districts, and special districts.

6. Serves as support and a point of contact for voter service polling centers and ballot box intergovernmental agreements.

7. Oversees and leads various special voter programs such as uniform and overseas voters, health care facilities, confined voters, and high school registrars.

8. Subject matter expert and lead in coordinating Watchers Program during an election.

9. Provides professional and administrative support for the Division as needed.

Senior Outreach Administrator
1. Manages, and ensures statutory compliance of community service functions including election notices, ballot envelope inserts, election forms & signage, public notice letters and similar mailings pertaining to the voter and election service teams.

2. Responsible for leading and supporting all areas of election judge operations by assisting with recruitment, hiring and payroll timekeeping.

3. Coordinates with United States Postal Service the Election printing needs, which may include but is not limited to postage accounts, ballot mail piece design and layout, mail ballot packet approval and provides mailing timelines to the General Mail Facility staff.

4. Coordinates with County Communications and the community in organizing, marketing and developing the “I Voted Sticker” contest program and the overall management of the Election Division website, ArapahoeVotes.com

5. Serves as the project manager and the point of contact for coordinating ballot content, petitions, candidate information and TABOR information with municipalities, school districts, and special districts.

6. Serves as the project manager and the point of contact for voter service polling centers and ballot box intergovernmental agreements.

7. Oversees and leads various special voter programs such as uniform and overseas voters, health care facilities, confined voters, and high school registrars.

8. Subject matter expert and lead in coordinating Watchers Program during an election.

9. Provides professional and administrative support for the Division as needed.

Skills, Abilities and Competencies: 
• Communication - Expresses clearly and effectively when speaking/writing to individuals or groups.
• Organized - Can marshal resources (people, funding, material, and support) to get things done.
• Service First - Improve customer experience; enhance quality of life; improve trust in government.
• Teamwork - Cooperates with others to achieve goals and overall work objectives.
• Adaptability - Responds to changing circumstances by being innovative and altering behavior.

Behavioral Competencies: 
Accountability
Inclusivity
Accessibility
Integrity

Education and Experience:
Election Outreach Administrator
• Any equivalent combination of education and work experience that satisfy the requirements of the job;
• At least 1 year of relevant experience; and/or 
• A bachelor’s degree in Public Administration, Communications or related field.

Senior Outreach Administrator
• Any equivalent combination of education and work experience that satisfy the requirements of the job;
• At least 3 years of relevant experience; and/or
• A bachelor’s degree in public administration, Communications or related field.

Preferred Qualifications:
• Any Continued Education and/or relevant Certifications. 
• Bilingual and/or American Sign Language. 
• At least 3 years of election experience.

Pre-Employment Additional Requirements: 
• Must successfully pass pre-employment testing which includes an acceptable motor vehicle record (MVR) and background check. 
• Security clearance required: will require fingerprinting and a Colorado Bureau of Investigation (CBI) background check. 

Post-Employment Requirements: 
• Must be able to work nights and weekends based on business need. 
• Work locations and facilities are subject to change based on business need. 

WORK ENVIRONMENT: 
• Work is generally confined to a standard office environment. 
• Hybrid work opportunities available per approval. 

PHYSICAL DEMANDS: 
The following are some of the physical demands commonly associated with this position. 

• Spends 70% of the time sitting and 30% of the time either upright or walking.
• Occasionally lifts, carries, pulls or pushes up to 20 lbs. 
• Occasionally uses cart, dolly, or other equipment to carry in excess of 20 lbs. 
• Occasionally climbs, stoops, kneels, balances, reaches, crawls and crouches while performing office or work duties. 
• Verbal and auditory capacity enabling constant interpersonal communication through automated devices, such as telephones, radios, and similar; and in public meetings and personal interactions. 
• Constant use of eye, hand and finger coordination enabling the use of automated office machinery or equipment. 
• Visual capacity enabling constant use of computer or other work-related equipment. 

Below, please list any special physical demands associated with this position. For instance, exposure to hazardous environments, blood borne pathogens, extreme heat/cold, use of power equipment or machinery, wearing of PPE (personal protective equipment). 

Definitions: 
Occasionally: Activity exists less than 1/3 of the time.
Frequently: Activity exists between 1/3 and 2/3 of the time. 
Constantly: Activity exists more than 2/3 of the time.

Toll Free Applicant Technical Support:  If you experience technical difficulty with the NEOGOV system (i.e. uploading or attaching documents to your online application), call NEOGOV technical support at 855-524-5627.  Helpful hints: if you are having difficulty uploading or attaching documents to your application, first, ensure your documents are PDF or Microsoft Word files, and second, close the document before you attempt uploading (attaching) it.

 

* Arapahoe County does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, disability, genetic information, sexual orientation or any other status protected under the law. It is our intention that all qualified applicants be given equal opportunity in any term, condition, or privilege of employment and that selection decisions are based on job-related factors. Arapahoe County is committed to making employment accessible to persons with disabilities.

** In accordance with Senate Bill 23-058, applicants understand that Arapahoe County will not request or require the applicant to include their age, date of birth, or date of attendance/graduation date on the initial application. Applicants understand that Arapahoe County can request or require an individual to provide documentation including copies of certification, transcripts, and other materials created by a third party. The applicant understands that the applicant can redact, if they so choose, information that identifies age, date of birth, or dates of attendance/graduation from an educational institution on those requested/required certification, transcripts and other materials created by a third party. 

Toll Free Applicant Technical Support:  If you experience technical difficulty with the NEOGOV system (i.e. uploading or attaching documents to your online application), call NEOGOV technical support at 855-524-5627.  Helpful hints: if you are having difficulty uploading or attaching documents to your application, first, ensure your documents are PDF or Microsoft Word files, and second, close the document before you attempt uploading (attaching) it. 

As a Regular Full-Time employee at Arapahoe County Government, you are eligible for benefits such as:	Medical, Dental, and Vision Insurance	Life and Supplemental Life Insurance	Short and Long Term Disability	Mandatory Pension Plan	Deferred Compensation Plan	Pre-paid Legal Services	Vacation and Sick Leaves	Holiday pay	Training and Educational Reimbursement OpportunitiesFor a more detailed listing of our benefit programs, click on the MENU link on the left and then Benefits Summary.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Please choose the response that best describes your educational background.
        
        
                High School Graduate or GED
                Some college courses
                Associate Degree
                Associate Degree in Public Administration, Communications or related field
                Bachelor's Degree
                Bachelor's Degree in Public Administration, Communications or related field
                Master's Degree
                Master's Degree in Public Administration, Communications or related field
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Please choose the answer that best describes your years of relevant experience.
        
        
                No Experience
                Less than 1 year of experience
                1 year to less than 2 years of experience
                2 years to less than 3 years of experience
                3 years to less than 4 years of experience
                4 years to less than 5 years of experience
                5 or more years of experience
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Please choose the answer that best describes your years of election experience.
        
        
                No Experience
                Less than 1 year of experience
                1 year to less than 2 years of experience
                2 years to less than 3 years of experience
                3 years to less than 4 years of experience
                4 or more years of experience
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Do you possess bilingual Spanish language and/or American Sign Language skills?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Do you have a current, valid driver's license?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Have you received eight or more points within the past twelve months or twelve or more points within the past twenty-four months against your driving record?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        How many moving traffic violations have you been cited for in the past two years?
        
        
                Less than 3 violations
                3 or 4 violations
                5 or more violations
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        In the past three years, have you had your driver's license revoked or suspended?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        