=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Attorney (Attorney 2) for Iowa Secretary of State
Salary: $68,764.80 - $105,872.00 YEAR
Location: Des Moines - 50319 - Polk County, IA, IA, 50319
Employer: State of Iowa
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2023-11-05
Job Type: Full-time
Job Number: 24-01338
Agency: 635 Iowa Secretary of State
Opening Date: 11/06/2023
Closing Date: 11/19/2023 11:59 PM Central
LinkedIn Tag: #LI-DNP
Point of Contact: Eric Gookin - Eric.Gookin@sos.iowa.gov
To Apply: Please attach Resume to the online application.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

The Office of Secretary of State (SOS) has three primary areas of responsibility: 1) Elections & Voter Registration, 2) Business Services, and 3) Safe at Home. The Elections Division provides oversight of election administration and voter registration duties conducted by county elections officials. The Business Services Division accepts filings related to business entities, notaries, and other related activities. Safe at Home is an address confidentiality program for survivors of domestic abuse, sexual assault, and other violent crimes. In addition to these three functional areas, the SOS has financial, IT, and communications teams that provide officewide support.
 
The Office of the Iowa Secretary of State is seeking an Elections Attorney (Attorney 2) to research, analyze, and advise on election-related legal issues both from internal staff and outside stakeholders. This includes analysis of state and federal statutes, court decisions, and administrative rules. Additionally, the Elections Attorney will propose, draft, and advocate for legislation, administrative rules, and policies. The position will serve as primary liaison to the Attorney General’s office (elections), serve as secretary and counsel to the Voter Registration Commission, and work with investigators on possible violations of election law. Position will act as counsel to the Secretary of State and Chief of Staff. Other duties may include a variety of in-house counsel work alongside the Chief Operating Officer.
 
Graduation from an accredited law school is required. A license to practice law is preferred but graduates who are eligible for admission to the Bar may be considered. This position reports to the Chief Operating Officer.
 
Research and analysis:
Federal and state statutes
Federal and state administrative law
Proposed legislation
Court decisions
Answering calls from county commissioners of elections and candidates
Answering calls from the public on matters of election law
Restoration applications of voting rights escalations
Reports of fraud or illegal election conduct
 
Writing:
Drafting memos, emails, and other communications on election legal issues
Letters of inquiry and technical infractions per Iowa Code ch. 39A
Drafting processes and procedures for improved election administration
 
Legislation:
Drafting legislation and administrative rules
Analyzing, summarizing, and tracking pending legislation
Presenting legislative initiatives before the legislative subcommittees
 
Secondary duties, assigned as needed:
Designee to the State Records Commission
Designee to the State Employee Insurance Committee
SOS records officer
Human resources investigations and disciplinary matters
Training county election staff
Training city clerks and school secretaries
Contract review with other SOS legal staff
Polling place accessibility compliance
Coordinating the state nomination objection panel
 
For additional Information, contact:  
Eric Gookin
Chief Operating Officer &
Legal Counsel
515-238-6469
eric.gookin@sos.iowa.gov

This is a non-merit position with The Office of Secretary of State. Candidates must follow the instructions in the "To Apply" section. Positions in this class are exempt from the screening and referral requirements of the Iowa Department of Administrative Services - Human Resources Enterprise.



 

Applicants must meet at least one of the following minimum requirements to qualify for positions in this job classification:

Graduation from an accredited school of law, and experience equal to two years of full-time work in the practice of law; not including experience as a law clerk.
Current, continuous experience in the state executive branch that includes eighteen months of full-time work with the employing agency in the practice of law; not including experience as a law clerk.

For additional information, please click on this link to view the job description. (Download PDF reader)

Within a period of time after hire, as determined by the appointing authority, employees in this class may be required to be admitted to the Iowa State Bar if required at the time of appointment.

Join Us!Whether it's caring for those in need, making highways safer, or improving agriculture production, the work that we do matters to the people of Iowa.We take our responsibilities and the public trust very seriously. We are committed to delivering the services that matter most to the people of Iowa. If you have the skills, the commitment and the desire to make a difference, then we invite you to explore the career opportunities available with the State of Iowa.Career ChoicesState government is one of the largest employers in Iowa, and also one of the most diverse. From state trooper to nurse to engineer, the state offers a wide variety of career opportunities.BenefitsThe state offers paid vacation, sick time and holidays, a defined benefit retirement plan,  health, dental, vision, and long-term disability insurance along with flexible spending accounts. For more information, please visit the executive branch employee benefits website.The State of Iowa is committed to providing an outstanding employment experience. Check out this Benefits Beyond the Paycheck brochure (Download PDF reader). 