=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Training Program Coordinator
Salary: $53,248.00 - $69,784.00 YEAR
Location: North Charleston, SC, SC, 29405
Employer: Charleston County Government
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2023-06-08
Job Type: Full-Time
Job Number: EV208507
Department: Board of Voter Registration & Elections
Opening Date: 06/09/2023

BENEFITS:
  • Health, Dental, Vision and Life Insurance
  • Optional Life and Disability Insurance
  • Optional Medical and Dependent Care Spending Accounts
  • Annual and Sick Leave
  • Fourteen (14) recognized Holidays
  • South Carolina Retirement System (SCRS) State Retirement Plan
  • Police Officers Retirement System (PORS - as applicable)
  • Optional Deferred Compensation Program
  • Longevity and Merit Pay Increases
  • Optional Federal Credit Union Membership
  • Leadership, Professional and Skill Development Training
  • Employee Assistance Program
  • Employee Well-being Program

For more information, visit our
benefits page
.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

This position is responsible for the recruiting, coordinating, and training of Election Day poll managers on the policies, procedures, and SC State law regarding the administering of fair, honest, and accurate elections within the polling places on Election Day and during early voting. This position will also train all temporary Early Voting staff. This position will be responsible for developing all instruction manuals and materials. This position reports directly to the Deputy Director of Election Operations.

OPEN UNTIL FILLED – APPLICATION REVIEW BEGINS IMMEDIATELY

This position develops the training of poll managers and coordinates in-person and online training for full-time staff, poll managers/temporary staff, and Board members.
 
Liaison to the Board for all training inquiries and certification requirements.
 
Coordinate the Adopt-A-Polling Location and Day for Democracy programs.  
 
Collaborate with the Marketing and Communications Specialist to produce poll worker recruitment materials and media.
 
Develop and implement comprehensive year-round training program that would benefit department staff, poll workers, and other county staff.
 
Create training schedules for all staff and board members, track and create reports on outcomes of all training and maintain training records for the department.
 
Train new hires on county and department policies and procedures and use the best training methods for a specific purpose or audience.
 
Gather and evaluate information from employees and management on previous training to identify weaknesses and areas that need additional training.
 
Attend seminars and meetings to learn new training methods and techniques and use the knowledge to prepare and coordinate future training sessions.
 
Recruit and train new Trainers, delegate training tasks to the new Trainers and evaluate performance.
 
Market company training opportunities to employees and provide information on benefits to encourage participation.
 
Inform employees, poll workers, and board members on scheduled training and track their progress.
 
Recommend training materials and methods, order and maintain in-house training equipment and facilities and manage the budget set for training.
 
Assist Precinct Manager with recruitment, assignment, and payroll for poll workers.
 
Will perform additional duties as assigned.
 

Associates Degree from an Accredited college in Education, Training, HR or related field. 
A minimum of 3 years of experience as a Trainer Coordinator, Trainer, Training Facilitator or similar role