=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Voter Services Manager
Salary: $138,964.18 - $176,145.84 YEAR
Location: WA 98057-2906, WA, WA, 98104
Employer: King County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2026-02-02
Job Type: Career Service (Exec)
Job Number: 2026RL26392
Department: KCE - King County Elections
Division: Voter Services
Opening Date: 02/02/2026
FLSA: Exempt
Bargaining Unit: Z3 : KC Personnel Guidelines
Full- or Part-Time: Full Time
Hours/Week: 40 hours/week

BENEFITS:
  • Excellent medical, dental, and vision coverage options: King County provides eligible employees with options, so they can decide what’s best for themselves and their eligible dependents
  • Life and disability insurance: employees are provided basic coverage and given the opportunity to purchase additional insurance for both the employee and eligible dependents
  • Retirement: eligible King County employees may participate in a pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems and a 457(b) deferred-compensation plan
  • Transportation program and ORCA transit pass
  • 12 paid holidays each year plus two personal holidays
  • Generous vacation and paid sick leave
  • Paid parental, family and medical, and volunteer leaves
  • Flexible Spending Account
  • Wellness programs
  • Onsite activity centers
  • Employee Giving Program
  • Employee assistance programs
  • Flexible schedules and telecommuting options, depending on position
  • Training and career development programs

For additional information about employee benefits, visit our
Benefits, Payroll, and Retirement Page
.
This is a general description of the benefits offered to eligible King County employees, and every effort has been made to ensure its accuracy.  If any information on this document conflicts with the provisions of a collective bargaining agreement (CBA), the CBA prevails.
NOTE:
Benefits for Term Limited Temporary (TLT) or Short Term Temporary (STT) positions, including leave eligibility and/or participation in the pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems, will vary based upon the terms and details of the position. Short Term Temporary positions are not eligible for an ORCA transit pass.
For inquiries about the specifics of this position, please contact the recruiter identified on this job posting.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

**Join King County Elections as the VOTER SERVICES MANAGER**

The Voter Services Manager (Elections Program Manager) provides leadership to a dynamic, highly skilled team of supervisors and staff who manage the voter records of over 1.4 million registered voters in King County. This position works closely with their team and department leadership to develop and deliver on the workgroup’s goals, priorities, and the department's vision. The ideal candidate will articulate a compelling vision for voter services that inspires the team, emphasize collaboration, clear communication, and thoughtful problem-solving in compliance with election laws, and play a vital role in election planning and operational coordination.

What you will be doing:

Lead and support the Voter Services team through direct and indirect supervision by setting clear expectations, encouraging collaboration, and promoting accountability. Continue building a strong team identity that leverages diverse skills and perspectives to achieve common goals. Support staff training, coaching, and professional development through regular feedback and one-on-one meetings.
Support daily voter services operations and help staff scale effectively during election periods. Collaborate with the team to prioritize work activities and ensure they have the resources needed to deliver key voter services functions. Make timely, sound decisions and develop forecasts that set the team up for success and smooth operations.
Model clear, transparent communication and ensure timely information sharing among leadership, staff, and stakeholders.
Empower and create a positive space for staff to solve problems and improve processes and procedures. Participate in election planning meetings, operational check-ins, and post-election debriefs to identify opportunities for improvement.
Foster inclusive, equitable, and culturally responsive voter services and conflict resolution practices, including serving voters with diverse language needs, abilities, and cultural backgrounds.

The ideal candidate will have (required qualifications):

Bachelor’s degree in public administration, political science, business administration, or a related field and three (3) years of progressively responsible experience in elections administration, voter services, or a related public-sector program; or an equivalent combination of education and experience.
Demonstrated skill and experience supervising staff, including setting expectations, monitoring performance, and providing coaching or corrective feedback.
Working knowledge of federal, state, and local election laws, regulations, and procedures related to voter services and election operations.
Commitment to continuous learning and self-reflection to improve leadership effectiveness.
Ability to develop effective two-way communication with teams, especially as it relates to decision-making, policies, and organizational updates.
Demonstrated skill and experience organizing, prioritizing, and directing multiple work activities.
Ability to resolve conflicts and respond to escalated issues calmly, professionally, and in accordance with policy and law.
Ability to make sound decisions while maintaining accuracy, neutrality, and public trust.

It would be great if you also have (preferred qualifications):

Washington State Elections Administrator Certification.
Experience working in a county or state elections office or another public-sector agency supporting voter services or election operations.
Experience developing or implementing training programs, procedures, or operational guidelines.
Familiarity with elections management systems, voter registration databases, or other government case management systems.

Travel to work locations throughout King County with limited or no public transportation services is required. A valid Washington State Driver's License is required to operate King County vehicles.

Who May Apply: This position is open to all qualified applicants. This position is open until filled. Applications submitted by February 23rd will be part of the first round of review and interviews.

Application Process: A complete King County application, Resume, and Cover Letter are required. The cover letter should summarize how you meet the experience, qualifications, knowledge, and skills for the position. Applications will be screened for clarity, completeness, and competitiveness. The most competitive candidates may be invited to participate in one or more interviews. 

Work Schedule: The work week usually is Monday through Friday, 8.00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., but may sometimes require work outside regular business hours. This position is Exempt from the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act and is not eligible for overtime pay. 

Work Location and Requirements: The Elections team works in a hybrid model, with days in the office as well as telecommuting. The ratio of remote to onsite work will be dependent on business needs and is subject to change. The primary onsite location for this position is the Elections Building, 919 SW Grady Way, Renton.

Employees must reside in Washington state and within a reasonable distance to their King County worksite to respond to workplace reporting requirements.

King County has a robust collection of tools and resources to support working remotely. The individual selected for this opportunity will join an innovative and progressive team that is redefining how we work as we transition to the department's hybrid environment. Employees will be provided with a County-issued laptop and must maintain a home workspace with an internet connection where they can reliably perform work and remain available and responsive during scheduled work hours.

Emergency Designation Status: Mission-Critical - Those employees who provide, maintain, and re-establish essential county functions as described in agency Continuity of Operations plans. Unless otherwise directed by the County Executive, department director, or agency head, all employees, regardless of designation, are expected to report to work or request leave during an emergency or inclement weather. For more detailed information, please visit HR Policy County Operations During Emergency Situations and the King County Guidelines for Workforce Management in an Emergency.

Union Membership: This position is non-represented. 

Forbes recently named King County as one of Washington State's best employers.

Together, with leadership and our employees, we're changing the way government delivers service and winning national recognition as a model of excellence. Are you ready to make a difference? Come join the team dedicated to serving one of the nation's best places to live, work and play.
      
Guided by our "True North", we are making King County a welcoming community where every person can thrive. We value diversity, inclusion and belonging in our workplace and workforce. To reach this goal we are committed to workforce equity. Equitable recruiting, support, and retention is how we will obtain the highest quality workforce in our region; a workforce that shares and will help advance our guiding principles--we are one team; we solve problems; we focus on the customer; we drive for results; we are racially just; we respect all people; we lead the way; and we are responsible stewards. We encourage people of all backgrounds and identities to apply, including Native American and people of color, immigrants, refugees, women, LGBTQ+, people living with disabilities, and veterans.
      
King County is an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Employer
No person is unlawfully excluded from employment opportunities based on race, color, religion, national origin, sex (including gender identity, sexual orientation and pregnancy), age, genetic information, disability, veteran status, or other protected class. Our EEO policy applies to all employment actions, including but not limited to recruitment, hiring, selection for training, promotion, transfer, demotion, layoff, termination, rates of pay or other forms of compensation.
      
To Apply 
If you are interested in pursuing this position, please follow the application instructions carefully. If you need this announcement in an alternate language or format, would like to request accommodation or assistance in the application or assessment process or if you have questions please contact your recruiter listed on this job announcement.

For more information regarding this recruitment, please contact: 
     Reeshema Lewis
     Sr. HR Business Partner
     Email: Reeshema.Lewis@kingcounty.gov 