=== JOB DETAILS ===

SALARY: $75,650.00 - $128,071.00 Annually
LOCATION: Wake County, NC
JOB TYPE: Permanent Full-Time
JOB NUMBER: 60088259-120519
DEPARTMENT: State Board of Elections
DIVISION: State Board of Elections
OPENING DATE: 12/05/2019
CLOSING DATE: 12/27/2019 5:00 PM Eastern
POSITION NUMBER: 60088259
SECTION: Legal
SALARY GRADE: AT04

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

***Please note the recruitment range is $75,650 - $90,000 pending applicable qualifications***

N.C. State Board of Elections is the statewide agency that supervises elections administration, enforces campaign finance requirements, and conducts associated investigations.  The State Board ensures uniform implementation of state and federal election laws and appoints local officials serving on county boards of elections. The Board is composed of five individuals appointed by the Governor from lists of nominees submitted by the chairs of the two political parties having the highest number of registered affiliates.  Agency staff are civil servants subject to the State Personnel Act.
 
Primary Purpose of Division
The State Board of Elections' Legal Division  provides comprehensive legal support to the State Board members, to the Executive Director, and to senior staff as counsel for the Agency.  Counsel is generally involved in major Agency decisions and assists in the strategic prioritization of initiatives and the Legal Division is called upon frequently to review agreements, assess legislation, navigate complex situations involving multiple stakeholders, and prepare draft directives or administrative rules.  Elections matters are often litigated in the courts, and counsel coordinates the Agency's involvement in proceedings and implementation of associated orders. 
 
Primary Purpose of the Position
This position is located in the Legal Division, which provides full service legal advice to the agency and its appointed board. This position will provide counsel regarding agency investigations in the areas of election and campaign finance law.  The position reports to the general counsel and will work closely with the Investigations Division within the agency.
This position will provide advanced legal support for the agency regarding the proper interpretation and application of laws, administrative rules, and policy.  Interpret laws related to investigative authority and procedure.  Provide advice regarding elements of criminal offenses.


Description of Work
 

Coordinate as necessary with investigators and state or federal law enforcement.
Analyze cases; research, plan, develop, and execute effective legal strategies relating to investigations and compliance.
Draft informational letters.  Review investigative files, reports, and correspondence.  Conduct investigative interviews for complex investigations into elections and campaign finance related matters.

Additional responsibilities include:
 
Respond to interested parties and support the agency's response to the media inquiries.  Provide legal review of public records responses, proposed statutes, and public releases.
Prepare member briefing materials ahead of Board meetings and advise appointed board regarding agency investigations.
The position will perform other duties as assigned.
Prior investigations, law enforcement, or prosecutorial experience preferred.
 

Thorough knowledge of statutory law, regulatory compliance, and enforcement processes. Ability to interpret and apply laws, administrative regulations, and court decisions. Ability to analyze facts, evidence, and legal instruments. Ability to express conclusions and arguments clearly and logically in oral and written form. Ability to analyze legal problems and render formal opinions regarding policy implications. Ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships.

Licensed to practice law by the North Carolina State Bar and two years of progressively responsible professional legal experience. NOTE: GS 114-2 and 114-6 make it the duty of the Attorney General of NC to represent the State of North Carolina in all litigation unless another statute specifically states otherwise.