Employment Opportunities
Rutherford County is an Equal Opportunity Employer.
Rutherford County Sheriff's Office Employment Opportunities Click Here
Rutherford County Social Services Employment Opportunities Click Here
Rutherford County EMS Opportunities Click Here
All Other Rutherford County Departments
Submit your Application (online application system)
To download and print a copy of the application, use the link below.
Printed Application (must be mailed in to 289 N. Main St., Rutherfordton, NC 28139)
Position Available-Rutherford County has a part-time scale operator position for the Solid Waste department. Duties: Answering telephones, waiting on customers, accepting payments and other duties as assigned. Must learn landfill policies, billing, posting payments, and be able to offer great customer service. Responsibilities include learning and operating the waste works system on the computer. Needs to be a self-motivated individual that can work in a fast paced environment. Min requirements: High school diploma and a valid driver’s license. Requires tact, judgment, organizational skills, and the ability to deal with the general public Salary and Schedule: $12.04 per hour. Hours Tuesday 8:00 am- 2:00 pm, Thursday 8:00 am – 2:00 pm and will be required to work 2 to 3 Saturday’s per month. Saturday hours 7:30 am-1:00 pm. Apply Rutherford County Human Resources, 289 N Main St., Rutherfordton or www.rutherfordcountync.gov. Open until filled. EOE
POSITION AVAILABLE-Rutherford County has an Administrative Assistant position available. Duties of Position: This position assists and supports the performance of the Clerk to the Board of County Commissioners and County Manager. Duties include answering telephones, greeting visitors, composing correspondence, documents, technical and statistical reports, and other materials; collecting information from various sources and compiling data for routine and special reports; monthly newsletter, acts as secretary for Airport Authority, schedules appointments and arranges meetings. Must have a thorough knowledge of grammar, punctuation, syntax, and spelling with the ability to compose effectively. Must be able to express ideas orally and in writing, including composing accurate minutes, reports, and correspondence. This position must be proficient in various computer software programs including word processing, spread sheets, and file maintenance programs to enter, store, and/or retrieve and format information as requested or otherwise necessary. Position will update website and facebook content. Requires tact, judgment, organizational skills, and the ability to deal with a wide range of personalities. Provides direct assistance to County Management to facilitate the professional and accurate flow of information to employees and the public. Education/Experience: Min req: Graduation from business school or community college with extensive related experience at a journey level or an equivalent combination of education and experience. Salary $42,014 with benefits that include health, dental, life, retirement and 401K. Apply Rutherford County Human Resources, 289 N Main St., Rutherfordton or www.rutherfordcountync.gov. Drug test required. Must possess a valid NC driver’s license. Open until filled. EOE
POSITION AVAILABLE-Rutherford County Government has a Maintenance Technician position available. Applicant must demonstrate a broad range of skilled trades which include plumbing, carpentry, electrical, HVAC and other related tasks. Position also performs preventative maintenance and repairs on equipment and buildings, assists with removal of storm debris, snow and ice, operates tools and machinery and other duties as assigned. Position reports to the Operations Manager of Public Works. Work is performed indoors and outdoors with possible exposure to chemicals, fumes, odors, dusts, mists, gases, oils and the elements to include heat, snow, ice, and rain. Work is also performed in close quarters and heights. Minimum req. - High school graduate supplemented by course work in trade skills (HVAC, electrical, plumbing, and carpentry) and related experience or equivalent combination of education and experience. Hours: Monday.-Thursday 7:00 am to 4:00 pm, Friday 7:00 am -12:00 noon. Flexibility is required to cover unforeseen events such as inclement weather. Wages $40,166 with great benefit package that includes NC Retirement, 401K, health, dental, and life. Apply: Rutherford Co. Human Resources, 289 N. Main St., Rutherfordton, N.C., or www.rutherfordcountync.gov. Drug and background testing required. Must possess a valid, clean NC Driver’s license. Position open until filled. EOE.
POSITION AVAILABLE-Rutherford County Building Inspections has a Permit Specialist position available. This position specializes in administrative and record keeping duties in support of the Building Inspections Department. The employee provides information to developers, contractors and homeowners regarding the building permit process, receives building permit applications, initiates and coordinates the review and the approval process for permits, tracks construction projects and applications, calculates and accepts applicable fees associated with permitting, assigns permit numbers, issue approved permits and certificates of occupancy, and schedules inspections. Work also includes greeting the public, establishing electronic and hard copy records, scanning, and filing documents, processing invoices and other administrative duties. Education and Experience: Graduation from high school with supplemented business coursework and considerable experience in administrative support work, preferably in the building trades or construction industry, or an equivalent combination of education and experience. Notary certification required or must be obtained with in the first 6 months of employment. Take “Permit Technician Certification” & Law & Administration course upon employment. Level I Buildings inspections desirable. Must have valid driver’s license with clean driving record. Starting salary $38,400 plus benefits which include NC Retirement, 401K, health, dental and life. Apply 289 N. Main St, Rutherfordton, NC or www.rutherfordcountync.gov. Work hours Mon-Fri 8:30-5:00. Drug and background test required. Position open until filled. EOE
POSITION AVAILABLE - Rutherford County Airport has a full time Utility Worker position available. Position reports to the Airport Director. Main duties involve a variety of tasks, including mowing, bush hogging, weed eating, hedge trimming, spraying, transporting equipment and other landscaping tasks. Knowledge of tractors, skid steers, mowers and excavators. Pesticide license is recommended but not required. Must have a clean driving record. Additional duties may be assigned including assisting customers, refueling planes, and duties assigned by Director. Knowledge of safety practices, defensive driving skills, equipment and county geography. Must have ability to get along with the general public. Work is performed mostly outdoors, subject to weather conditions and is classified as heavy labor. Must be able to lift 50 lbs and push 100 lbs. Hours Mon thru Fri 8:00-4:00, however hours may vary sometimes to include weekends. Annual Salary $38,400 with great benefit package including retirement, 401k, health, dental and life. Apply Rutherford County Human Resources Department, 289 N. Main Street, Rutherfordton, N.C. or www.rutherfordcountync.gov, Position open until filled. Drug and background test required EOE
POSITION AVAILABLE –Part time van driver for Rutherford County Transit Department. Duties and Responsibilities: Position requires ability to drive a fifteen (15) passenger van. Must assist elderly and/or passengers with a disability to board and/or leave the vehicle, must be able to load, position, secure, and unload persons in wheelchairs on lift equipped vehicles (This requires ability to pull, push, bend over, stoop and get down on hands and knees). Must be able to operate 2-way radio to maintain radio contact. Reports to the Operations Manager. Requirements: Requires frequent contact with the public, courtesy, and tact. Requires knowledge of county and regional geography. Minimum requirements: valid N.C. driver’s license, CDL with passenger endorsement is preferred, excellent driving record, five years’ experience as a licensed driver, graduation from high school, background check, pre-employment drug test and DOT physical. Position is up to 19 hours per week, Monday-Friday. Pay is $16.55 per hour. Participation in random, post-accident, and reasonable suspicion drug and alcohol testing is required. Applications may be obtained by visiting Rutherford County Human Resources Department, 289 N. Main Street, Rutherfordton, N.C. or on-line www.Rutherfordcountync.gov. Position open until filled, EOE.
Rutherford County Sheriff's Office:
For Sheriff's Department and Detention Center positions, you must bring the County job application and the Sheriff's Office Application and its requirements.
POSITION AVAILABLE-Rutherford County Sheriff’s Office is seeking part time detention officers for the Rutherford County Detention Center. Duties include direct supervision, processing, classification, transporting and safety of inmates. Applicants must have good communication skills, be 21 years of age, have a high school diploma, pass drug test and pass an extensive criminal background check. Applicant must meet Rutherford County Sheriff’s Office requirements and be eligible for certification by NC Sheriffs’ Training and Standards Commission. Wages: dependent on experience. Work schedule: 12 hour days/evenings, weekends and holidays. Apply at Rutherford County Sheriffs’ Office, 198 N. Washington Street, Rutherfordton NC. Mon-Fri 8:30-5:00 Job is open till filled. EOE.