=== JOB DETAILS ===

Salary: $30.25 - $38.26 Hourly
Location: Tacoma, WA
Job Type: Career Service - Full Time
Job Number: 19-00462
Department: Auditor
Division: Auditor-Elections
Opening Date: 12/06/2019
Closing Date: 1/17/2020 8:00 AM Pacific

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

**Please Note: This opportunity has been reopened to gather additional applicants. Those applicant's that have already applied are still being considered. Applicant's received by 12/22/2019 will have first consideration. 

About the Division
The Pierce County Auditor's Office is responsible for elections, licensing, and recording.
 
The Auditor's Elections Division maintains voter registration rolls, conducts federal, state and local elections, verifies petition signatures, publishes a local Voters' Pamphlet, and maintains precinct lines after redistricting. Pierce County has over 520,000 registered voters and conducts four elections each year.  The Elections Division serves 114 jurisdictions (boundary lines, voter assignment, elections) and files candidates for over 500 elected offices.

The work of Pierce County Elections is consistently 24/7 - action-packed and exciting. Whether it is Election Day or another day of the year, effort is being made to continuously improve the voter experience and the technology of elections. We're a workplace family that cares more than just about the daily grind. We are proud of the work we do; it's award-winning and well-respected throughout Washington State.


Why It's a Great Opportunity: This individual will play an integral part in carrying out and conducting elections in Pierce County and play an integral part of the day to day operations and elections systems. This position supports the foundational aspect of our democratic process while providing services to our customers.

Why It's a Great Division: The Auditor's Office has an excellent reputation for being a supportive employer with open communication, collaboration, and the potential for promotional opportunities. We offer a competitive salary and benefits plan as well as the opportunity to be a part of a collaborative team.

How to be Successful in the Role: You will work alongside the Elections Supervisor and receive direct feedback. Time management, multi-tasking, and knowledge of current elections systems will be crucial.
 
Your Future in this Role: This position is a perfect foundation for future leadership positions within the Auditor's Office and Pierce County.

Coordinates and participates in the activities of a specialty in the Elections Division; determines work schedules and methods to expediting work-flow; issues instructions; and monitors work for accuracy and compliance to procedures and policies in specialty area assigned.
Coordinates, organizes, and documents all legal aspects of an assigned specialty required to hold elections.
Oversees all aspects of voter registration. Assists customers and candidates in all election activities.
Prepares for an election following all federal laws and the Revised Codes of Washington (RCW's) and Washington Administrative Codes (WAC's), and County Code addressing election activities.

This announcement is not intended to reflect all duties to be performed by our next team member, but presents a descriptive list of the range of duties that may be performed.  To view the complete classification, click here.  

Four years of general clerical experience required. Two years Elections related experience preferred.  Experience working in a lead or supervisory role and Certification as an Elections Administrator under (WAC) and (RCW) regulations are preferred.  Additional education or related experience may be substituted equally for the recruiting requirements.
 
SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS AND/OR QUALIFICATIONS:     

A valid Washington State driver's license may be required when travel is required of the position. 
Ability to successfully complete Pierce County background investigation is required.  

Special Note:
Employees in this class may be limited as to vacation during the primary and general election season and will be required to work extended hours, on-call, or alternate hours during an election cycle.

To be considered for this opportunity please:

Complete and submit an online Pierce County Employment Application by selecting "APPLY" above or go to:   www.piercecountywa.org/jobs. 
If you do not have internet access, you may visit your local public library or any WorkSource location and use their computers.
Individuals needing accommodation in the application, testing process or need this job announcement in an alternative format may call Human Resources at (253) 798-7480, at least two days prior to the need. 

This is a competitive selection process.  Your application form will be reviewed and evaluated for the quality and quantity of education/experience in the areas listed.  Applicants whose qualifications most closely correspond to the County's needs will be eligible for further consideration.  Notification of application status normally occurs 4 to 6 weeks after the closing date.  Short notice may be given to applicants to participate in further selection processes which may include written, oral and performance examinations, and final interviews. 
 
As an Equal Employment Opportunity Employer, Pierce County welcomes a diverse workforce.  Pierce County does not discriminate based on race, creed, religion, color, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, marital status, age, disability, veteran status, the presence of any sensory, mental, or physical disability, or the use of a trained guide dog or service animal by a disabled person.

Employee benefits are not just about the kind of services you get, they are also about how much you may have to pay out of pocket. Pierce County offers a competitive benefits package that offers flexibility and peace of mind.We understand that your life revolves around more than just your career and that your priority is making sure that you and your family maintain health and financial security. That's why choice is a key component of our benefits package. We have a selection of health and retirement plans, paid leave, staff training and other compensation benefits that you can mix and match to meet your current and future needs.Our benefits:Vacation (Annual Leave)After approximately six months, employees receive six days of vacation leave. Since we value your experience, the amount of vacation you can accrue increases the longer you work with us. Vacation accrues on a bi-weekly basis for full-time employees as follows:Vacation Accruals:During years 1-3, 12 DaysDuring years 4-7, 16 DaysDuring years 8-13, 20 DaysDuring years 14-18, 23 DaysDuring years 19, 24 DaysDuring years 20, 25 DaysDuring years 21, 26 DaysDuring years 22, 27 DaysDuring years 23, 28 DaysDuring years 24, 29 DaysDuring years 25 & thereafter, 30 DaysA maximum of 45 days may be carried from one year into the next.Pro-Rated for Part-Time based on % of 1.0 FTE.Military Leave:Pierce County has a proud history of supporting the armed forces and provides members of the armed forces with up to 21 days paid military leave per state fiscal year.Holidays:Some full-time employees are entitled to ten paid holidays as follows:   New Year's Day - January 1Martin Luther King, Jr's birthday - Third Monday in JanuaryPresident's Day - Third Monday in FebruaryMemorial Day - Last Monday in MayIndependence Day - July 4Labor Day - First Monday in SeptemberVeteran's Day - November 11Thanksgiving Day - Fourth Thursday in November & Friday afterChristmas Day - December 25Personal Holidays:Regular full-time and regular part-time employees also receive two additional paid personal holidays. Each paid personal holiday accrues on January 1 of each year and must be taken during the calendar year in which it was accrued.Furlough:Some Pierce County employees may be designated to receive 10 "furlough" days per year in lieu of holidays. Furlough days are available for use on January 1 and must be scheduled and taken within the calendar year. Employees who leave employment with Pierce County must reimburse the employer for used furlough days based upon the number of remaining holidays.Sick Leave:Sick leave accrues on a bi-weekly basis, at the rate of one day per month.Insurance Benefits:Employees and families are covered by medical (including vision), dental and basic life insurance.  There are multiple medical plans with very affordable monthly premiums that offer coverage throughout Pierce County.  Employees are eligible to enroll each year in a flexible spending plan, which enables them to use tax-deferred dollars toward their health care and dependent care expenses.  Employees also have the opportunity to participate in supplemental life and long term disability insurance plans.   To view premium rates, summary of benefit coverage, and other information, please visit the Pierce County Health Benefits website.Retirement and Deferred Compensation:Pierce County employees are members of the State of Washington's Department of Retirement System (DRS) and depending on the position or previous DRS enrollment will be able to enroll in one of many programs DRS offers.  For additional information, check out the Department of Retirement Systems' web site.Employees also have the ability to participate in the Nationwide Deferred Compensation Plan.  This is a supplemental retirement savings program  that allows you control over the amount of pre-tax salary dollars you defer as well as the flexibility to choose between multiple investment options.Social Security:All Pierce County employees are covered by the federal Social Security and Medicare systems. The county and the employee pay an equal amount into the system.Miscellaneous Benefits:Please visit Pierce County's Benefits website for more information.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        How many years of general office/clerical experience do you have?
        
        
                None
                Some to less than 1 year
                1 year to less than 3 years
                3 years to less than 6 years
                6 years to less than 10 years
                More than 10 years
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Please your highest level of completed education.
        
        
                Less than a High School Diploma
                High School Diploma or GED
                Some College, but no degree
                Associates Degree
                Bachelor's Degree
                Master's Degree
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have working in an Elections?
        
        
                None
                Less than 2 years
                2 years to less than 5 years
                5 years to 10 years
                More than 10 years
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Detail your Elections experience, specifically involving ballot processing. Provide name of jurisdiction, number of registered voters, tasks performed and areas of responsibility. If none, type "N/A".
        
        
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Are you certified as a Washington State Elections Administrator?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Select all election-related software programs/applications in which you have experience and are proficient in.
        
        
                Microsoft Word
                Microsoft Excel
                Microsoft Powerpoint
                Microsoft Access
                Voter Registration Software (DIMS, DFM, VOTEC, WEI, other)
                Voter Tabulation Software (Clear Ballot, ES&S, Dominion, HART, other)
                GIS Software (ESRI, ARCGIS, GE Smallworld, other)
                None of the above
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        This position requires the ability to juggle multiple projects and priorities within very specific and in some cases, legally defined timelines and deadlines; shifting priorities in a moment's notice. Describe your methods of organizing and prioritizing projects and how your skills, abilities and previous work experience demonstrate your ability to meet these challenges.
        
        
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        This position requires scheduling and directing the work of part time staff. Please describe your experience in setting pickup routes, renting equipment, scheduling employees, and direction of part time staff.
        
        
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        Employees in this position may be limited as to vacation time off during the primary and general election season, may be placed "on-call", and will be required to work a flexible schedule, which may include evenings, weekends, holidays, and overtime. Are you willing and able to work as within these parameters?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        