=== JOB DETAILS ===

Salary: $2,445.00 - $3,056.00 Monthly
Location: Castle Rock, CO
Job Type: Full-Time Temporary
Job Number: 2505L 11/18/19
Department: Clerk & Recorder
Opening Date: 11/18/2019
Closing Date: 12/4/2019 12:00 AM Mountain
FLSA: Non-Exempt

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

This is a highly physical position with a heavy emphasis on warehouse work, requiring the ability to continually lift equipment weighing more than 50 pounds. This position will perform routine maintenance on voting equipment, identify non-routine repairs to election equipment and mark and track equipment for follow up maintenance. incumbent will coordinate equipment and maintain records documenting device history. Forklift certification is a plus. 

ESSENTIAL DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES: (The following examples are illustrative only and are not intended to be all inclusive.)
 

Assists with maintaining an asset management database that includes all voting equipment and election supplies.
Maintains a chain of custody document for all equipment.
Maintain equipment logs.
Maintains a process to manage the check-in and out of critical warehouse inventories.
Construct and load shelving carts onto moving trucks for transport of election equipment and supplies to Voter Service and Polling Centers (VSPCs)
Perform and document acceptance testing and reset on all election equipment prior to elections.
Document all equipment problems, failures, and service performed on equipment. 
Assists with ballot collection.
Room set up for trainings and meetings
Assist with polling place site set up and tear down
Performs at an acceptable level of productivity and reliability.
Attendance must be maintained at an acceptable level.
Lives out the Vision, Mission, and Core Values of the Clerk and Recorder's Office, maintains a supportive environment conducive to teamwork. 
Performs other duties as assigned.

EDUCATION and/or EXPERIENCE:  Generally, a high school diploma or GED.  Previous warehouse experience or similar experience helpful.
 
KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS AND ABILITIES:
 
Knowledge: 

Knowledge of, and ability to learn, personal computer applications such as word processing and spreadsheet software.
Knowledge of database management, device acceptance testing, and maintenance of chain of custody.
Skills: 
Demonstrated ability to effectively utilize a variety of software applications including Word and Excel (or similar software and applications).
Basic computation skills required.
Drive large vehicles such as a 28' moving truck
Proficient in operating general office equipment.
Skill in use of hand and power tools.
 
Abilities: 
Ability to effectively utilize written and oral communication.
Reasoning required for troubleshooting of equipment and problem solving.
Ability to understand and follow oral and written instructions.
 
CERTIFICATIONS, LICENSES, & REGISTRATIONS:
Must have a valid Colorado Driver's License and complying Colorado Insurance.  
Forklift certification preferred.


The ability to successfully complete pre-employment screening including but not limited to: reference checks, criminal background (to include fingerprinting through a national data base), motor vehicle record, and drug screen is required.

SUPERVISION RECEIVED: 
This position receives frequent supervision and feedback on performance.
 
SUPERVISORY RESPONSIBILITIES: 
This position has no direct supervisory responsibility and may occasionally assist with monitoring election judges and temporary employees.
 
 
INDEPENDENT JUDGMENT: Identify opportunities for process and/or productivity improvements and notify supervisor. Effectively utilize resources (reports, policies, experience, and job knowledge) to draw logical conclusions to problems.

WORK ENVIRONMENT:
 
Physical Work Environment: 
Office, warehouse and occasionally work outdoors for a limited amount of time. During the Election cycle, work is conducted in a warehouse environment with dust, varying temperatures, cement flooring with no padding, high shelving requiring ladder, and the use of pallet jack equipment
 
Physical Demands: 
Ability to consistently lift and stack up to 40-50 lbs. and move carts weighing over 100 pounds over long durations.  Ability to work long hours, nights, and weekends may be required during the election cycle, the day before Election Day as well as the day of the Election will see up to 16 work hours
 Must be able to pass criminal background check and drug test.
           
Material and Equipment Directly Used:
Forklift, various types of vehicles, warehouse racking, pallets, carts, A-frame signs, polling booths, ballot boxes, computer, and various elections-related technical equipment (scanners, printers, etc.).
 
In the event of an emergency/disaster in or near the County, all County employees are expected to make every effort to be available to assist the County Manager, Elected/Appointed Officials and Department Directors to ensure the continued operation of any and all necessary County functions.  This may mean being available to perform additional duties and hours beyond what is normally required.  In the event that an exempt employee does work more than 40 hours a week in support of County operations during an emergency, such employee may receive overtime or other appropriate wage compensation in accordance with existing County policies or at the discretion of the County.

Douglas County offers a limited benefits package for this temporary position.  This position is eligible for medical insurance and paid County Holidays.  Part-time employees receive a pro-rated benefits package.