=== JOB DETAILS ===

SALARY: $42,780.00 - $72,424.00 Annually
LOCATION: Wake County, NC
JOB TYPE: Permanent Full-Time
JOB NUMBER: 65030501-120519
DEPARTMENT: State Board of Elections
DIVISION: State Board of Elections
OPENING DATE: 12/05/2019
CLOSING DATE: 12/27/2019 5:00 PM Eastern
POSITION NUMBER: 65030653
SECTION: Legal
SALARY GRADE: GN11

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

***Please note the recruitment range for this position is $42,780 - $58,000.***

N.C. State Board of Elections is the statewide agency that supervises elections administration, enforces campaign finance requirements, and conducts associated investigations.  The State Board ensures uniform implementation of state and federal election laws and appoints local officials serving on county boards of elections. The Board is composed of five individuals appointed by the Governor from lists of nominees submitted by the chairs of the two political parties having the highest number of registered affiliates.  Agency staff are civil servants subject to the State Personnel Act 

 
Primary Purpose of the Division
The State Board of Elections' Legal Division provides comprehensive legal support to the State Board members, Executive Director, and agency staff.  Counsel are generally involved in major Agency decisions and assists in the strategic prioritization of initiatives and the Legal Division is called upon frequently to review agreements, assess legislation, navigate complex situations involving multiple stakeholders, and prepare draft directives or administrative rules.  Elections matters are often litigated in the courts, and counsel coordinates the Agency's involvement in proceedings and implementation of associated orders. 

 
Primary Purpose of the Position
This position is located in the Legal Division, which provides full service legal advice to the agency and its appointed board. This position will provide independent support to the agency's attorneys in the areas of election and campaign finance law.  The position reports to the general counsel and will also work closely with senior staff within the agency.
 

 Description of Work
 

Provide independent legal support to the agency in the complex areas of elections and campaign finance law.  Perform legal research and draft informational guides for county boards of elections and other stakeholders.
Draft correspondence for and reviewing incoming correspondence from outside parties.  Screen and return calls with outside parties on behalf of legal staff.  Summarize communications.
Draft correspondence for and reviewing incoming correspondence from outside parties.  Screen and return calls with outside parties on behalf of legal staff.  Summarize communications.

Additional responsibilities include:
 
Review nominations for county director vacancies, including collecting all required documents, communicating with county boards, and preparing approvals for the executive director.
Manage county board member appointments process including vacancy tracking, correspondence, and review of nominee applications.
Perform discovery searches and review responsive documents. Perform other litigation support tasks as needed.
Assist in preparing member briefing materials ahead of State Board meetings. Prepare documents, exhibits, and other materials for State Board meetings.
Track litigation and other deadlines to ensure timely action and responses.
Other duties as assigned.

Successful candidate will have sound judgment, high level of attention to detail, ability to determine when assistance is required by legal staff, and a demonstrated ability to handle sensitive matters with appropriate discretion. Thorough knowledge of case, statutory, and common law. Ability to perform legal research in accordance with preliminary instructions as to methods or approach, source material available, and policy and precedent of the office. Ability to communicate clearly and logically in oral and written form. Ability to utilize technology in research and writing assignments. Ability to maintain effective working relationships with persons contacted in the course of work

Graduation from an appropriately accredited institution for paralegal training and two years of experience as a paralegal; or Bachelor s degree from an appropriately accredited institution and two years of substantive paralegal experience; or High school or General Education Development (GED) diploma and six years of paralegal experience performing delegated, substantive legal work; or an equivalent combination of education and experience.