=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Chief Deputy Registrar of Voters
Salary: $87,984.00 - $125,299.20 YEAR
Location: San Bernardino, CA, CA, 92415-0440
Employer: San Bernardino County
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2023-02-25
Job Type: Full-time
Job Number: 23-03120-01
Department: Registrar of Voters
Opening Date: 02/25/2023
Closing Date: 8/14/2023 at 3:00 PM Pacific Time (US & Canada); Tijuana

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===





The San Bernardino County Registrar of Voters seeks a dynamic and innovative administrator who can lead and thrive in a fast-paced environment to manage our elections programs, processes, and team. 


The Chief Deputy Registrar of Voters is a forward-thinking individual that assists with guiding the future direction of the department and its processes, taking a hands-on approach to find solutions while working collaboratively with a knowledgeable and dedicated team. The Chief Deputy Registrar of Voters is a key member of the Department's senior management team, participating in organizational strategic planning and administering election programs. The position serves as a Chief over a division of the Registrar of Voters (ROV) office and has primary responsibility for assisting the ROV in planning, conducting, and certifying all Primary, General, and Special elections. 


Essential duties include but are not limited to: 
Directs the daily activities of a functional division; guides, directs and evaluates the work of staff; recommends, establishes, and administers departmental procedures; provides direction to supervisory staff on personnel issues. 
Assists with development of the Department's strategic plan and with planning and implementing special projects; develops, maintains, and enhances internal policies and procedures; instills and maintains a high level of customer service in the department.
Assists in developing and monitoring the department's operating budget; oversees staff supporting the budget preparation process and the department acquisition processes; manages and develops bid requests and request for proposals (RFP); performs cost related studies.
Assists in developing, analyzing and tracking election related legislation; reviews and analyzes elections related statutes, ordinances and regulatory directives to ensure compliance; makes recommendations regarding their impact on department operations; compiles and reports on a variety of elections related data.
Provides information to County leaders, candidates, officials, media, and the public about the elections process; may assume Registrar's duties in Registrar's absence.
Oversees voter registration and the maintenance of voter records; directs the verification and filing of nominations and campaign statements for elective offices, initiative referendums, and petitions. 
Oversees the preparation, inspection, printing of official and sample ballots and voter information guides; ensures quality and timely distribution of ballots and voter information materials. 
Plans and directs Election Day operations, logistics and voting services; coordinates polling site acquisition and staffing and ensures the accurate and timely distribution and delivery of election materials to the polls.
Oversees the official canvass of the votes, processing of absentee ballots and certification of the elections. 
Evaluates elections organization, processes, and staff utilization; makes recommendations for improvements and assists in the development of plans to accomplish the efficient, accurate and timely completion of elections. 
For a more detailed listing of duties, please view the Chief Deputy Registrar of Voters job description.


(Download PDF reader)




ABOUT THE REGISTRAR OF VOTERS


Conducting elections is exciting and challenging. Attention to detail is critical and working as a team is vital to accomplishing successful elections. Permanent and temporary staff, as well as volunteers, assist in the variety of complex tasks required to conduct elections. 


The Registrar of Voters believes that a successful team is a partnership that contains the following elements:


Clear roles and responsibilities
Shared goals and objectives
Commitment to excellence
A clear communication process
A willingness to be open and honest
A willingness to compromise
Personal accountability
Personal integrity


CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT
 
Pre-Employment Process: Candidates must undergo background screening including fingerprints and medical exam prior to appointment.


Work Schedule: During peak election periods, this position will be required to work extended hours which may include evenings, weekends (both Saturdays and Sundays) and early morning/late night hours on election day/night.
 
Travel: Travel throughout the County may be required. Employees will be required to make provision for transportation. At the time of hire, a valid California Class C driver license and proof of automobile liability insurance must be produced and maintained for the individual providing the transportation.
 

Education:
A Bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university in Business or Public Administration, or other relevant field.

-AND-
 
Experience: Three (3) years of professional-level experience analyzing and implementing laws, processes, procedures, practices, and/or policies in a government, corporate, or non-profit environment. Experience must include full-scope supervision, and be clearly detailed on the application.
 
Substitution: Additional qualifying experience administering and implementing elections programs, or supervising a staff engaged in election programs, in a government, state, county, or local elections environment may substitute for the required education on the basis of one year of full-time experience equaling 30 semester (45 quarter) units of the required education.


Qualifying degrees must be completed at a college or university accredited by an accrediting association recognized by the United States Department of Education. In addition, degrees completed outside of the U.S. must be accompanied by an evaluation report from a reputable credential evaluation service indicating equivalency to degrees or coursework completed at the college or university accredited by an accrediting association recognized by the United States Department of Education.

The ideal candidate will have extensive experience participating in the planning and managing of Federal, State, County and/or Municipal election processes in a manner that promotes an inclusive electoral process and reflects the highest public ethics and personal integrity.  Additionally, the successful candidate will possess the following skills and competencies:

LEADERSHIP

An inspirational leader who develops and cultivates leadership in others.
Develops and promotes succession planning.
Applies effective performance management skills.
Demonstrates unquestionable integrity and high ethical standards.
Provide clear direction and takes a hands-on approach to managing the team.
Actively coaches and mentors others.

RELATIONSHIP BUILDING

Demonstrates professional acumen and effectiveness.
Nurtures productive relationships with key stakeholders.
Connected, trustworthy, and empowering.
Able to relate harmoniously with community partners, staff and clients of diverse ethnic and economic backgrounds

 KNOWLEDGE

Knowledge of principles, practices and Federal, State and local laws, legislation, and regulations required in the field of election administration and voting systems.
Actively employs methods to build this knowledge through research and interactions with staff and steak holders.
Possession of a Certified Election and Registration Administration (CERA) Certification is highly desirable.

COMMUNICATION

Possesses excellent oral and written communication skills.
Creates an atmosphere of transparency, inclusiveness and openness.
Responsive to the concerns and issues of others.
Participates in collaborative problem solving.

 OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE

Has a vision for and excels in short-range and long-range planning.
Demonstrates effective and decisive operational management skills.
Excels in measuring and increasing performance against objectives.
Holds themselves and others accountable for results.

There will be a competitive evaluation of qualifications based on a review of the application and supplemental questionnaire. It is to your advantage to be explicit in your responses on the application and supplemental questionnaire. 
 
Application Procedure:  To be considered for this excellent opportunity, please complete and submit the online employment application and supplemental questionnaire by as soon as possible. This is a Continuous recruitment and can close at any time without notice.Resumes will not be accepted in lieu of the application and/or supplemental questionnaire.


To ensure timely and successful submission of your online application, please allow ample time to complete and submit your application.  Applicants will be automatically logged-out if they have not submitted the application and all required materials prior to the posted deadline.  Once your application has been successfully submitted you will receive an onscreen confirmation and an email.  We recommend that you save and/or print these for your records. Please note, if you do not receive an onscreen confirmation and an email acknowledging our receipt of your application we have not received your application.  
 
If you require technical assistance, please click HERE to review the Government Jobs online application guide, or contact their Toll-Free Applicant Support line at (855) 524-5627.  Please note that Human Resources is not responsible for any issues or delays caused by the internet connection, computer or browser used to submit the application.  
 
All communications regarding the remainder of the selection process will be via email. Please be sure the email provided on this application is always current; it is your responsibility to update your personal information. Update your Spam, Junk, Bulk and Firewall settings as needed to ensure that you receive all information pertaining to this recruitment.
 
EEO/ADA: San Bernardino County is an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) and Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) compliant employer, committed to providing equal employment opportunity to all employees and applicants.  
 
ADA Accommodation: If you have a disability and require accommodations in the testing process, submit the Special Testing Accommodations Request Form (Download PDF reader) within one week of a recruitment filing deadline.
 
Veterans’ Preference: Eligible veterans and their spouse or widow(er) who are not current County employees may be awarded additional Veterans’ Preference points. Click here (Download PDF reader) for information and instructions to request Veteran's Preference points.
 
Please click HERE for important Applicant Information and the County Employment Process.

Exempt Unit-Group CThe County of San Bernardino offers a range of benefit programs for employees and their eligible dependents. These include health, dental, vision, and life insurance, as well as a variety of voluntary benefits. Programs and benefit amounts vary and are based on bargaining unit, family size, hire date, plan selection, and number of hours worked.For a summary of benefits, please click here (Download PDF reader).Refer to the appropriate MOU, contact the County's Employee Benefits and Services Division at (909) 387-5787 or visit the Benefits website for more detailed information at hr.sbcounty.gov/employee-benefits/.    


                    
    
        

01

    

    
         Instructions:  The information on the application and your responses to the following supplemental questions will be used in a  competitive evaluation of qualifications.   Experience listed on this questionnaire must also be listed and fully detailed in the work experience section of your application. 
        
        
                I have read and understand the above statement.
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Do you possess a Bachelor's degree in Business or Public Administration, Management, or other relevant field?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Are you utilizing the substitution of additional professional-level experience in an elections environment for education on the basis of one year of full-time experience equaling 30 semester (45 quarter units) of the required education?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Administration of Elections, Government, Corporate or Non-Profit Related Policies and Procedures:  Describe your experience in which you had direct responsibility for reviewing, researching and implementing government codes, legislation, policies, procedures and regulations in an elections office/program and/or government agency. Please include specific details in which your experience relates to collaborating with different functional areas of the organization and with outside stakeholders to achieve the organization's goals; describe challenges faced, strategies used to overcome challenges or improve operations, and the impact they made. 

If no experience, indicate "N/A."
        
        
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Administration of Elections, Government, Corporate or Non-Profit Related Programs: Describe your experience administering programs and supervising staff engaged in these programs. Include the number of specific programs you administered or supervised, the scope of these programs, the stakeholders who benefited from these programs, and the number of individuals who were served by these programs; describe challenges faced, strategies used to overcome challenges or improve outcomes, and the impact they made. 

If no experience, indicate "N/A."
        
        
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Budget Preparation Experience: Describe your experience analyzing, researching, forecasting and making recommendations in the development, preparation and justification of budgets; recommending/establishing fiscal procedures, and monitoring purchases/expenditures. Include the size of the budgets for which you were responsible, any problems or compliance issues that you encountered, and what steps you took to resolve these issues.

If no experience, indicate "N/A."
        
        
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Logistics Management: Describe your logistics management experience in the following: 

Warehouse and distribution management, including inventory control and coordination/tracking of pickups and deliveries.
Event management, including developing timeline, site acquisition, staff coordination/assignment/training, and supply planning.  
Include any challenges faced, strategies used to overcome challenges, and the impact they made.

If no experience, indicate "N/A."
        
        
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Applicant Acknowledgement - Notification via email: As part of our efforts to increase efficiency and promote conservation of resources, Human Resources uses email to communicate with applicants. Therefore, all future communications regarding this recruitment, including applicant status and testing notifications, will be made via email.) Each applicant needs their own email address. We strongly encourage you, as an applicant, to ensure that the email address you have provided with your application is current, secure and readily accessible to you. Adjust Spam and/or other filters so that our emails are accepted. Please carefully read any notices that we send you and follow any instructions provided in a timely manner. We will not be responsible in any way if you do not receive our emails (i.e., for the non-delivery of our emails or if you fail to check your e-mail on a timely basis).
        
        
                I acknowledge that I have read, understood, and agree to the above statement.
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        **ATTENTION GMAIL USERS**We have become aware of an increase in Gmail's spam filter sensitivity. Due to this change, it is possible that emails coming from San Bernardino County Human Resources may be marked as spam and will not make it into your Gmail inbox. 
For your convenience, the attached PDF document contains a step-by-step guide to create and apply filters within Gmail. Click this link to  download the PDF file (Download PDF reader). Once downloaded, follow the instructions so that you will receive future emails from San Bernardino County Human Resources.
Note: If you apply the filters and still do not receive emails from San Bernardino County Human Resources you can check your www.governmentjobs.com (Neogov) account inbox. All notifications will appear there.
        
        
                I understand
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        Applicant Acknowledgement - Application Complete: Thank you for taking the time to complete this application and supplemental questionnaire. Please be sure to review all information provided prior to submitting it as you cannot update or revise it once submitted. Your submitted application will be reviewed and evaluated as is. Please do not refer to a resume or other documentation in lieu of completing the employment history section or responding to the supplemental questions; they will not be reviewed or considered. Once your application has been successfully submitted, you will receive an onscreen confirmation and an email confirmation will be sent to the email address listed on your application. We recommend that you save and/or print these for your records. Please note, if you do not receive an onscreen confirmation and an email acknowledging our receipt of your application we have not received your application.
        
        
                I acknowledge that I have reviewed my application and understand that I will not be able to update or revise any part of it once submitted.
        
    


                        
                            * Required Question
                        
                