=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Director of Elections &amp; Registration
Salary: $110,217.89 - $181,859.52 YEAR
Location: The David Hankerson Building Marietta, GA, GA, 30090
Employer: Cobb County Government
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2023-02-28
Job Type: Full-Time
Job Number: 02148
Department: Elections
Opening Date: 03/01/2023
Closing Date: 3/15/2023 11:59 PM Eastern
Grade Code: 120

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

The purpose of this classification is to plan, direct and oversee the operations and staff involved in voter registration and election processes for the County under the general oversight of the Board of Elections and Registration, including, but not limited to, conducting federal, state, county and municipal elections, registering voters, and maintaining voter lists, and to ensure such processes are carried out in compliance with local, state, and federal election and voter registration laws, rules, and regulations.

Independently manages, directs, and evaluates assigned staff: oversees employee work schedules to ensure adequate coverage and control; reviews timesheets; approves/processes employee concerns and problems and counsels or disciplines as appropriate; assists with or completes employee performance appraisals; directs work; acts as a liaison between employees and County administrators and elected officials; and trains staff in operations, policies, and procedures.

Independently organizes, prioritizes, and assigns work: prioritizes and schedules work activities in order to meet objectives; ensures that subordinates have the proper resources needed to complete the assigned work; monitors status of work in progress and inspects completed work; consults with assigned staff to assist with complex/problem situations and provide technical expertise; provides progress and activity reports to Board of Elections and Registration, County administrators and elected officials; and annually reviews Department procedure manuals and updates, as needed.

In partnership with the Board of Elections & Registrations, establishes vision and goals for Department and overall conduct of all elections-related efforts in Cobb County. Develops and implements long- and short-term plans, goals, and objectives for the Department; evaluates effectiveness and efficiency of department activities; reviews and revises policies, procedures, plans and programs; and researches, assesses, and develops strategies to meet current and future election and voter registration needs.

Supports, guides, and responds to requests and directives from the Board of Registration & Elections. Provides information, presents proposed changes and reports election certification details to the Board of Elections and Registration. Implements policies and actions made by the Board. Tracks and facilitates Board member appointments, swearing-in and officer elections and ensures Board Members understand their role and duties; plans, prepares, and manages logistics of Board of Elections & Registrations of regular monthly and special meetings in partnership with Board Chair; communicates with and informs Board Members in accordance with Board bylaws, policies and procedures.

Interprets, applies, and ensures compliance with all applicable codes, laws, rules, regulations, standards, policies and procedures; initiates any actions necessary to correct deviations or violations; maintains a comprehensive, current knowledge of applicable laws/regulations and pending legislation that may impact department operations; and maintains an awareness of new products, methods, trends and advances in the profession.

In consultation with the Board of Elections and Registrations, develops and then independently implements, and administers the Department budget; uses current and commonly accepted financial management practices to create and monitor program budgets; presents and defends budget to County officials; monitors expenditures for adherence to established budgetary parameters; and prepares and submits invoices and other financial documentation. 

Directs functions and activities of the Department; directs voter registration programs, voter education and outreach programs; administers elections; recruits and trains poll workers; and oversees storage, maintenance, preparation, and testing of election equipment.

Directs voter registration activities; reviews and approves staffing levels during high volume and peak registration periods; monitors work activities to ensure timely processing of applications and maintenance of voter registration rolls; and conducts voter education seminars and training for citizens. 

Qualifies candidates for county and city offices before each election cycle; oversees and directs recall elections, recounts and research for provisional ballots.

Conducts elections: supervises departmental personnel to ensure that all elections are conducted in accordance with state and federal laws and regulations; conducted in accordance with state and federal laws and regulations;  proposes locations and schedule for early voting and takes all steps necessary to secure locations; organizes equipment and staff deployment levels for early and election day voting; reviews training packets; monitors early voting traffic and election task lists; approves ballot layouts; and implements changes in procedures to resolve issues.

Maintains current knowledge of industry, regulatory and legislative developments affecting elections and registration services to ensure application to areas of responsibility; ensure departmental staff maintain current knowledge of industry, regulatory and legislative developments related to job responsibilities.

Represents department to media, voters, other departments, municipalities and other stakeholders; represents department at Board of Commissioners meetings, Board of Elections and Registration meetings, and to Secretary of State's office; answers questions and provides information; coordinates work activities; reviews status of work; and resolves problems.

Performs other related duties as assigned.

Minimum Qualifications

Bachelor's Degree in Public Administration, Operations Management or related field required; supplemented by ten years of progressively responsible experience managing similarly complex operations, with five years of management experience for a comparably sized organization or as a director for a smaller organization; or any equivalent combination of education, training, and experience which provides the requisite knowledge, skills, and abilities for this job.

Preferred Qualifications


Certified Elections Registration Administrator (CERA) or similar elections certification is preferred.
Master's Degree in Public Administration, Business Administration or Operations Management.
Knowledge of process management, supply chain management, logistics, customer service, and/or strategic communications.
Experience reporting to a board or policymaking body.
 

Must possess and maintain a valid Driver's License. Must be able to obtain and maintain Georgia Election Official and Georgia Voter Registrar certification. 

Tasks require the ability to exert light physical effort in sedentary to light work, but which may involve some lifting, carrying, pushing and/or pulling of objects and materials of light weight (5-10 pounds). Tasks may involve extended periods of time at a keyboard or work station

Sensory Requirements

Some tasks require the ability to communicate orally.

Environmental Factors

Essential functions are regularly performed without exposure to adverse environmental conditions.





                            
    
        

01

    

    
        I understand that all answers to these supplemental questions must be verifiable in the 'Educational History' and 'Work History' sections of the application. Failure to provide sufficient information in these sections may result in my disqualification from the hiring process.
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Are you a current Cobb County Government employee?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        If yes, in what department of Cobb County Government are you currently employed? (Enter N/A if not applicable - This does not include Cobb County School District employees).
        
        
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Are you 18 years of age or older?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Do you have a valid driver's license?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Can you, after employment, submit proof of your legal right to work in the United States?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        I have read the Minimum Qualifications required for this position and understand I must demonstrate those qualifications on the application in order to be considered for this position. Furthermore, a failure to adequately demonstrate all qualifications may result in my removal from consideration. Lastly, I understand indicating "see resume" on the application and/or in a supplemental question response, may not be accepted in lieu of a completed application.
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Do you have a Bachelor's Degree in Public Administration, Operations Management or related field; supplemented by ten years of progressively responsible experience managing similarly complex operations, with five years of management experience for a comparably sized organization or as a director for a smaller organization; or any equivalent combination of education, training, and experience which provides the requisite knowledge, skills, and abilities for this job?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        Educational Background: Mark the highest level of education you have completed.
        
        
                Some High School
                High School Diploma or GED
                Vocational/Technical Diploma
                Some College
                Associate Degree
                Bachelor's Degree
                Advanced Degree
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        If you have a college degree or vocational/technical diploma, what was your major area of study? Enter N/A if this does not apply.
        
        
        
    


    
        

11

    

    
        Are you a Certified Elections Registration Administrator (CERA)?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

12

    

    
        How many years of progressively responsible experience do you have managing complex operations?
        
        
                No experience
                Less than 7 years of experience
                7 to 10 years of experience
                10 to 15 years of experience
                More than 15 years of experience
        
    


    
        

13

    

    
        Please describe your progressively responsible experience managing complex operations. Enter N/A if not applicable. "See resume" will not be accepted.
        
        
        
    


    
        

14

    

    
        For any listed management experience, what was the largest number of personnel you supported?
        
        
                No experience
                Less than 50 personnel
                50 - 249 personnel
                250 - 499 personnel
                More than 500 personnel
        
    


    
        

15

    

    
        Have you ever worked for a public or government agency?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

16

    

    
        I understand that a resume must be attached to my online application in order for it to be deemed complete.
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

17

    

    
        If you receive a conditional offer of employment, you will be required to satisfactorily complete the following elements: a criminal background check and a Motor Vehicle Report (MVR) check. Please note that a criminal conviction may not disqualify you from consideration. Are you willing to accept these terms?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        