=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Election Certification &amp; Training Program Manager
Salary: $83,000.00 - $93,000.00 YEAR
Location: Thurston County – Olympia, WA, WA, 98504
Employer: State of Washington
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2023-01-12
Job Type: Full Time - Permanent
Job Number: 23 EL WMS2 0258b
Department: Office of the Secretary of State
Division: Elections
Opening Date: 01/12/2023
Closing Date: 5/22/2023 10:59 AM Pacific

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===


The Office of Secretary of State (OSOS) offers some of the most unique and diverse job opportunities in state government. Its critical responsibilities include ensuring a fair and accurate elections process; connecting Washingtonians through the power of libraries; protecting our important government records; and registering corporations and charities. The Secretary of State also administers vital community programs that inspire giving, document our history, and assist crime survivors in avoiding further abuse. This independent office under the state Constitution operates from facilities in the Olympia area and statewide.
 
The OSOS is looking for top-performing employees who embody its core values of integrity, service excellence, visionary leadership, collaboration, and teamwork. It is committed to both employee growth and work-life balance. The benefits of working in state government also include potential eligibility for the federal Public Service Loan Forgiveness program.
 
The Elections Division plays a critical role in ensuring Washington's democratic process is fair, accurate, accessible, and secure. Serve the voters of Washington and join our talented and purpose-driven team.
 
The Program Manager is a member of the Elections Management Team that advises the Elections Deputy Director and Director on direction and policy, which helps set strategic direction for the division. This position is deemed critical or essential according to the Division’s Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP) as the Division relies on this work unit to interpret law, rules, and policy in assisting the division and county election offices in continuing to function.




Election Certification & Training Program Manager
(WMS BAND 2)

 
The Elections Certification & Training Program Manager reports to the Deputy Director of Elections and is responsible for managing the Certification and Training team. Certification and Training is a mission critical program established and required by RCW 29A.04.530, 29A.04.560, 29A.04.590.
 
The Certification and Training Manager develops and manages program objectives and priorities, in collaboration with external stakeholders including independently elected auditors and election officials. Additionally, the Program Manager makes collaborative strategic judgments and decisions balancing competing program demands or priorities for resources; develops, modifies, and implements division policy; formulates long-range strategic plans and projects[OF1] . The Certification and Training Manager also integrates division and office policies and reviews the program for compliance with policies and strategic objectives.
 
The position is responsible for four mission critical functions:
 

Professional certification and training of local and state election administrators and county canvassing board members.
Review of county election operations and procedures.
Testing of all vote tabulation equipment used in each county during state primary and general elections.
The election clearinghouse and publication program.
The Program Manager also manages the process for adopting state rules and is the Election Division’s liaison with the USPS.

Directs the Certification and Training Program of the State Elections Division
Tasks:

Provides leadership and strategic analysis and planning for the program.
Monitors performance of the operations of the Certification and Training team to meet the functions of the program including but not limited to the certification and training of election administrators, county reviews, testing of vote tabulation equipment and the clearinghouse and publication program.
Develops and implements program policies, monitors, analyzes, and evaluates the program, and ensures cooperation and accountability from 39 Washington counties.
Plans, implements, monitors, and evaluates all phases of the establishment of new election law and policy as it affects county performance of elections.
Monitors performance of the operations of the Certification and Training Program to be consistent with division budget objectives, policies, and procedures.
Provides expert consultation to county election offices ensuring consistent, accurate election information and administration in all Washington counties.
Manages the official process of adopting state rules in coordination with Policy Director
Tasks:
Monitors the effectiveness of state rules related to the administration of voter registration and elections administration.
Drafts proposed state rule changes in conjunction with the Secretary of State, the Elections Director, and the Secretary of State’s Assistant Attorney General.
Coordinates a consistent county review process of proposed rule changes.
Works in conjunction with the Policy Director in accurately creating appropriate documents for adoption, filing the appropriate documents, completing all required official notifications, conducting the hearings, and maintaining the documents according to the public records retention schedule.
Assists with the development of legislation and policy making which directly pertains to state and county election processes and procedures.

Manages and ensures appropriate staffing for the Election Administration and Certification Board
Tasks:
Discusses business for Board consideration with the Secretary of State and the Elections Director.
Sets meeting dates with the Board chairman.
Develops and publishes the Board agenda for every meeting.
Tracks the appointment and terms of office for each member and requests appointments to fill vacancies.
Ensures that the Board meets public meetings act requirements.
Serves as the US Postal Service liaison for the Elections Division
Tasks:
Serves as chairperson of the Washington State Postal Taskforce and schedules 1-2 meetings a year.
Manage Washington State Postal Taskforce including membership and meetings.
Ensures excellent communication between stakeholders and USPS to resolve election mail issues.
Promotes election mail best practices.
Gains excellent understanding the USPS mailing system and procedures.
Develops working relationships with key state US Postal officials.
Provides educational materials and trainings addressing correct US Postal Service management.
Supervises Staff
Tasks:
Supervises assigned staff.
Provide training and regular feedback and coaching, when necessary, Write expectations and performance evaluations.
Plans, and leads the work performed by program staff. Assures appropriate and optimum use of the program's resources. Enhances the effectiveness of employees through training and professional development opportunities.
Supports effective communications throughout the division. Maintains the highest standards of personal, professional, and ethical conduct and supports the state's goals for a diverse workforce.
Determines workload coverage, schedules, and vacations.
Makes recommendations on hires of program staff; initiates disciplinary action.



ACCOUNTABILITY - Scope of Control and Influence
Develops and implements training program topics, curriculum, and scheduling for 39 counties statewide that result in election law compliance.
Manages a staff of 6 full-time elections subject matter professionals.
Collaborates with program staff to determine the number and types of training opportunities, including providing training materials
Assists with budget allocations each state fiscal year (combination of general fund state and other funding sources)


Decision Making and Policy Impact
Major decision-making responsibilities assumed by the Certification and Training Program Manager:
Develops and implements program policies and procedures.
Interprets and implements policies and procedures.
Develops and manages program budgets and approves expenditures for the program
Independently determines and executes work processes and methods applicable to the program.
Evaluates staff performance, recommends promotion, and assesses training needs.
 
Major actions taken to a superior for approval: 
Proposed program budget allocations and adjustments
Items requiring legislative action
Personnel actions requiring action by Deputy or Director

Financial Dimensions
Operating budget controlled
Amount in state, federal, and other funding sources is $1,250,000 per biennium


Supervisory Responsibilities 
6.0 FTE Program Specialist 4




Required Qualifications:
The Program Manager position requires professional level knowledge of the principles and application of management, budget management (at the program and division levels), and long-range or strategic planning, working knowledge of personnel rules and regulations, and of affirmative action and diversity regulations.
Ability to efficiently use a personal computer and applicable software to successfully perform the essential job functions of the position.
Current Washington driver's license or have requested and obtained an appropriate accommodation.                                                                  
AND 


 A Bachelor’s degree in political science, public administration, business administration, public relations, communications, education, or related field, or equivalent AND four years of progressively responsible experience related to public programs and policy development.
                                                                         
OR 


Eight years of progressively responsible experience related to public programs and policy development.
Preferred/Desired Qualifications:
Washington State Certified Election Administrator credentials highly preferred at time of hire
Experience working in elections at the county or state level 
Managing a program at a supervisory level
Developing and presenting training curriculum
Current professional knowledge of elections principles and practices
Experience as a supervisor and leading and mentoring staff
Effective oral and written communication skills, ability to multi-task, ability to analyze complex data and make recommendations is required
Demonstrated knowledge of voter registration management and vote tabulation systems
Demonstrated experience drafting legislation and WACs. Knowledge of the state legislative process.
Demonstrated knowledge of governmental structure of municipalities, special purpose districts, counties, and the state
Demonstrated strong interpersonal skills to successfully facilitate and coordinate the efforts of diverse staff and promote a cooperative work environment; coaching and mentoring, inspiring and motivating; building trust in others and maintaining confidentiality
Demonstrated ability to balance and manage multiple priorities and activities; conduct annual, weekly, and daily workload planning and analysis, including establishment of short-and long-term goals, objectives and performance measures; and meet critical deadlines without compromising accuracy or compliance standards
Demonstrated skills and professional development to represent the agency in a positive, professional manner, when so requested or required
 

Working Conditions:
Works primarily in an office environment but does require traveling in a vehicle for extended periods of time. Must be willing and able to sit for 4 or more hours a day and must be willing and able to move and maneuver objects weighing up to 30 pounds with or without reasonable accommodation. Extensive travel in and out of state, requiring overnight stays for up to one week at a time. May be required to travel on the weekends and may be required to travel in inclement weather. Standard core business hours of Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. but must be willing and able to work beyond normally scheduled business hours on short notice. Must have the ability to represent an elected official or politician in a competent, confident, and professional manner while maintaining the highest standards of honesty, integrity, confidentiality, and ethics.

Special Requirements/Conditions of Employment:


All employees of the Office of the Secretary of State are required to be fully vaccinated and show proof against COVID-19.  Your vaccine status will be verified by Human Resources (HR) prior to your first day of employment.  Please contact HR if you need information on a medical or religious accommodation at hr.sos.wa.gov.
Special Certification:  Washington State Certified Election Administrator credentials required within two years of hire.  
May be required to work some weekends and evenings, travel across the state, and occasionally travel nationwide.
Compensation
Salary commensurate with qualifications and experience. Full benefit package includes health, dental, life and long-term disability insurance; paid vacation, sick and military leave; deferred compensation plans; 12 paid holidays; and a public employees' retirement plan.

How to Apply:

To be considered for this position you must attach the following:
Letter of interest describing how your experience and qualifications relate to the duties and qualifications of the position
Current Resume
Three Professional references. Personal references will not be considered. 
You must complete the supplemental questions at the end of this application.  Incomplete responses such as "see resume" will not be considered.  In addition, if the employer you identify in the additional information section is not included on your resume or work experience profile and/or you do not identify an employer, you will not receive credit.
All veterans must include a copy of your DD214 to receive preference in the hiring process.  You must black out your social security number before attaching it to your application.


The Office of the Secretary of State is an equal opportunity employer (EOE). We do not discriminate on the basis of religion, age, gender, marital status, color, creed, national origin, political affiliation, military status, gender identity, sexual orientation, or any sensory, mental or physical ability. All interested candidates are encouraged to apply. Persons of disability needing assistance in the application process, or those needing the announcement in alternative format, should email HR@sos.wa.gov.



More than Just a Paycheck!Employee benefits are not just about the kind of services you get, they are also about how much you may have to pay out of pocket. Washington State offers one of the most competitive benefits packages in the nation.We understand that your life revolves around more than just your career. Like everyone, your first priority is ensuring that you and your family will maintain health and financial security. That's why choice is a key component of our benefits package. We have a selection of health and retirement plans, paid leave, staff training and other compensation benefits that you can mix and match to meet your current and future needs.Read about our benefits:The following information describes typical benefits available for full-time employees who are expected to work more than six months. Actual benefits may vary by appointment type or be prorated for other than full-time work (e.g. part-time); view the job posting for benefits details for job types other than full-time.Note:  If the position offers benefits which differ from the following, the job posting should include the specific benefits. Insurance BenefitsEmployees and their families are covered by medical (including vision), dental and basic life insurance. There are multiple medical plans with affordable monthly premiums that offer coverage throughout the state.Staff are eligible to enroll each year in a medical flexible spending account which enables them to use tax-deferred dollars toward their health care expenses. Employees are also covered by basic life and long-term disability insurance, with the option to purchase additional coverage amounts.To view premium rates, coverage choice in your area and how to enroll, please visit the Public Employees Benefits Board (PEBB) website. The Washington Wellness program from the Health Care Authority works with PEBB to support our workplace wellness programs.Dependent care assistance allows the employee to save pre-tax dollars for a child or elder care expenses.Other insurance coverage for auto, boat, home, and renter insurance is available through payroll deduction.The Washington State Employee Assistance Program promotes the health and well-being of employees.Retirement and Deferred CompensationState Employees are members of the Washington Public Employees' Retirement System (PERS).  New employees have the option of two employer contributed retirement programs.  For additional information, check out the Department of Retirement Systems' web site.Employees also have the ability to participate in the Deferred Compensation Program (DCP).  This is a supplemental retirement savings program (similar to an IRA) that allows you control over the amount of pre-tax salary dollars you defer as well as the flexibility to choose between multiple investment options.Social SecurityAll state employees are covered by the federal Social Security and Medicare systems. The state and the employee pay an equal amount into the system.Public Service Loan ForgivenessIf you are employed by a government or not-for-profit organization, and meet the qualifying criteria, you may be eligible to receive student loan forgiveness under the Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program.Holidays Full-time and part-time employees are entitled to paid holidays and one paid personal holiday per calendar year.Note: Employees who are members of certain Unions may be entitled to additional personal leave day(s), please refer to position specific Collective Bargaining Agreements for more information.Full-time employees who work full monthly schedules qualify for holiday compensation if they are employed before the holiday and are in pay status for at least 80 nonovertime hours during the month of the holiday; or for the entire work shift preceding the holiday. Part-time employees who are in pay status during the month of the holiday qualify for the holiday on a pro-rata basis. Compensation for holidays (including personal holiday) will be proportionate to the number of hours in pay status in the month to that required for full-time employment, excluding all holiday hours. Pay status includes hours worked and time on paid leave.Sick Leave Full-time employees earn eight hours of sick leave per month. Overtime eligible employees who are in pay status for less than 80 hours per month, earn a monthly proportionate to the number of hours in pay status, in the month to that required for full-time employment. Overtime exempt employees who are in pay status for less than 80 hours per month do not earn a monthly accrual of sick leave. Sick leave accruals for part-time employees will be proportionate to the number of hours in pay status, in the month to that required for full-time employment. Pay status includes hours worked, time on paid leave and paid holiday.Vacation (Annual Leave)Full-time employees accrue vacation leave at the rates specified in WAC 357-31-165(1) or the applicable collective bargaining agreement (CBA). Full-time employees who are in pay status for less than 80 nonovertime hours in a month do not earn a monthly accrual of vacation leave.Part-time employees accrue vacation leave hours in accordance with WAC 357-31-165(1) or the applicable collective bargaining agreement (CBA) on a pro rata basis. Vacation leave accrual will be proportionate to the number of hours in pay status, in the month to that required for full-time employment.Pay status includes hours worked, time on paid leave and paid holiday.As provided in WAC 357-58-175, an employer may authorize a lump-sum accrual of vacation leave or accelerate the vacation leave accrual rate to support the recruitment and/or retention of a candidate or employee for a Washington Management Service position. Vacation leave accrual rates may only be accelerated using the rates established WAC 357-31-165.  Note: Most agencies follow the civil service rules covering leave and holidays for exempt employees even though there is no requirement for them to do so. However, agencies are required to adhere to the applicable RCWs pertaining holidays and leave.Military LeaveWashington State supports members of the armed forces with 21 days paid military leave per year.Bereavement Leave Most employees whose family member or household member dies, are entitled to three (3) days of paid bereavement leave. In addition, the employer may approve other available leave types for the purpose of bereavement leave.Additional LeaveLeave SharingParental LeaveFamily and Medical Leave Act (FMLA)Leave Without PayPlease visit the State HR Website for more detailed information regarding benefits.Updated 12-31-2022


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Where did you hear about this job opening?
        
        
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Do you have a family member or relative currently employed at the Office of the Secretary of State? *Relative includes parent, child, spouse, domestic partner, brother, sister, grandparent, aunt, uncle, cousin, niece, any 'step' relations within the preceding categories, any in-law relations within the preceding categories and any others living in the employee's household.
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        If you answered Yes in the previous question, what is the name of your family member/relative?
        
        
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        PLEASE READ THE BELOW AND TYPE YOUR INITIALS IN RESPONSE TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT YOU HAVE READ AND UNDERSTAND THESE STATEMENTS. • The Office of the Secretary of State has a Nepotism Policy that does not allow employment of relatives or family members in the same chain of command. I acknowledge this policy and I do not have familial connections or household members employed at the Office of the Secretary of State. I understand that if I am hired and it is discovered that I have a relative or household member working in the same division, my employment will be terminated immediately.
        
        
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Do you have professional level knowledge of the principles and application of management, budget management (at the program and division levels), and long-range or strategic planning; working knowledge of personnel rules and regulations, and of affirmative action and diversity regulations?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        In reference to the question #5, please describe your level of professional knowledge in the mentioned fields and where you gained this experience and skills required for this position?
If you do not have this experience, please write "N/A" in the box below.
        
        
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Are you able to efficiently use a personal computer and applicable software to successfully perform the essential job functions of the position?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Do you have a Bachelor's degree in political science, public administration, business administration, public relations, communications, education, or related field, or equivalent AND four years of progressively responsible experience related to public programs and policy development.
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        In reference to the question #8, please describe when and where you gained four years of progressively responsible experience related to public programs and policy development?
If you do not have this experience, please write "N/A" in the box below.
        
        
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        If you do not have the qualification outlined in question #8, do you have eight years of progressively responsible experience related to public programs and policy development?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

11

    

    
        In reference to the question #10, please describe when and where you gained the eight years of progressively responsible experience related to public programs and policy development?
If you do not have this experience, please write "N/A" in the box below.
        
        
        
    


    
        

12

    

    
        This position has a requirement to be physically in the office which is located in Olympia, Washington. 
Are you able to do this? Please answer YES or NO.
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

13

    

    
        PLEASE READ THE BELOW AND TYPE YOUR INITIALS IN RESPONSE TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT YOU HAVE READ AND UNDERSTAND THESE STATEMENTS. • I will NOT attach or place my vaccination status within the application, resume, or cover letter. If I do, I understand that it will be rejected and I will be provided an opportunity to apply again without including my confidential health information. • I understand that my vaccination status is not needed until I am offered employment for the job for which I am applying. After a job offer is made, the Human Resources Office will contact me to review my vaccination status. Individuals unable to receive the COVID-19 vaccination due to medical condition(s) and/or sincerely held religious beliefs will have an opportunity to request an exemption and engage with Human Resources to explore what if any reasonable accommodations are available for the job you may be offered. • I will not share my vaccination status with hiring managers or interview panels.
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        