=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Specialist - Ballot Processing
Salary: $33.62 - $42.52 HOUR
Location: Tacoma, WA, WA, 98409
Employer: Pierce County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2023-01-19
Job Type: Career Service - Full Time
Job Number: 23-00076
Department: Auditor
Division: Auditor-Elections
Opening Date: 01/19/2023

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Why It's a Great Opportunity: 
This is a great opportunity to play a critical role in this nation's elections and democracy. Whether it is Election Day or another day of the year, we are working to continuously improve the voter experience and the conduct of elections.
 
As a dedicated civil servant with experience in elections and supervising large teams, we are looking for an Elections Specialist for ballot processing.  You will have the opportunity to be in the center of the action in Washington’s second-largest county. You will work with other specialists and management to develop a ballot processing schedule, and then schedule staff. You will also help with voter registration tasks when needed.
 
Why It's a Great Department:  
Pierce County is a leading county in elections administration in Washington and the country. You will work in an office that’s dedicated to serving the public and passionate about high performance.
 
The Auditor’s Office Elections Division maintains voter registration rolls, conducts federal, state and local elections, verifies petition signatures, publishes a local Voters’ Pamphlet, and maintains precinct lines after redistricting. Pierce County has over 550,000 registered voters and conducts four elections each year. The Elections Division serves 114 jurisdictions (boundary lines, voter assignment, elections) and files candidates for over 500 elected offices.
 
Learn more about Elections here.
 
How to be Successful in the Role
We are looking for someone is comfortable and excels at leading and directing a large team of Seasonal elections workers ensuring accuracy in ballot processing and time-sensitive tasks. Someone who is customer service focused yet is deadline driven.  Someone who values teamwork, is adaptable, learns new systems quickly, and who can communicate across all levels of the organization, with our customers and party observers. Multi-taskers with excellent written communication will be successful in this role.
 
Your Future in this Role
As an Elections Specialist, you will have the ability to immediately contribute to the team’s success. You will be guided through the process with coaching-focused managerial support, a team that wants you to be successful in your role, and an organizational culture that encourages continuous learning and professional development.
 
Core Daily Responsibilities:


Coordinates and participates in the activities of a specialty in the Elections Division; determines work schedules and methods to expediting work-flow; issues instructions; and monitors work for accuracy and compliance to procedures and policies in specialty area assigned.
Coordinates, organizes, and documents all legal aspects of an assigned specialty required to hold elections.
Oversees all aspects of voter registration. Assists customers and candidates in all election activities.
Oversees all aspects of ballot processing, including mailing out, receipt, opening, and preparing for ballot scanning.
Oversees all activities related to voting machines and all supplies needed to conduct all elections.
Prepares for an election following all federal laws and the Revised Codes of Washington (RCW’s) and Washington Administrative Codes (WAC’s), and County Code addressing election activities.
Creates, designs, and maintains the Office of the Pierce County Auditor’s Elections Division website.
Performs quality control work including proofreading, grammar, and spelling.
Designs and produces all publications, reports, manuals, flyers, legal advertisements, ballots and related election materials including Voter Pamphlets, and all jobs using a variety of desktop publishing software.
Performs election setup, coding of tabulation software and election testing, to accurately count ballots and report results.
A classification description with a more detailed list of essential function can be found here: 

MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS


Four years of general clerical experience required.
Two years Elections related experience preferred.
Experience working in a lead or supervisory role and Certification as an Elections Administrator under (WAC) and (RCW) regulations are preferred.
Additional education or related experience may be substituted equally for the recruiting requirements. 
As a condition of employment, the applicant will need to authorize and complete a background check. Information received from the background check is reviewed case-by-case and will not necessarily remove an applicant from consideration.

APPLICATION AND SELECTION PROCESS
To be considered for this opportunity please:


Complete and submit an online Pierce County Employment Application by selecting "APPLY" above or go to:   www.piercecountywa.org/jobs.
**UPLOAD a resume.  Also attach a cover letter describing your elections responsibilities and experience.
If you do not have internet access, you may visit your local public library or any WorkSource location and use their computers.
If you have a question about this opportunity, please email the Recruitment Team at PCHRRecruit@piercecountywa.gov and specify the Job Number and Title. 
Individuals needing accommodation in the application, testing process or need this job announcement in an alternative format may call Human Resources at (253) 798-7480, at least two days prior to the need.
At Pierce County, diversity, equity, and inclusion means commitment, not a single step. We strive to foster an inclusive environment that supports equitable access to opportunities throughout your career. We want to recruit, develop, and maintain a talented workforce from various backgrounds, cultures, lifestyles, and perspectives, committed to our vision.  Employees of the County have local, direct, and visible impact in our diverse community. Will you join us in keeping Pierce County a great place to live, work, and raise a family?

Employee benefits are not just about the kind of services you get, they are also about how much you may have to pay out of pocket. Pierce County offers a competitive benefits package that offers flexibility and peace of mind. We are proud to offer Employee Resource Groups, a focus on professional development in our Leadership Training Program, and a County Book Club. We understand that your life revolves around more than just your career and that your priority is making sure that you and your family maintain health and financial security. That's why choice is a key component of our benefits package. We have a selection of health and retirement plans, paid leave, staff training and other compensation benefits that you can mix and match to meet your current and future needs.Our benefits:Vacation (Annual Leave)After approximately six months, employees receive six days of vacation leave. Since we value your experience, the amount of vacation you can accrue increases the longer you work with us. Vacation accrues on a bi-weekly basis for full-time employees as follows:Vacation Accruals:During years 1-3, 12 DaysDuring years 4-7, 16 DaysDuring years 8-13, 20 DaysDuring years 14-18, 23 DaysDuring years 19, 24 DaysDuring years 20, 25 DaysDuring years 21, 26 DaysDuring years 22, 27 DaysDuring years 23, 28 DaysDuring years 24, 29 DaysDuring years 25 & thereafter, 30 DaysA maximum of 45 days may be carried from one year into the next.Pro-Rated for Part-Time based on % of 1.0 FTE.Military Leave:Pierce County has a proud history of supporting the armed forces and provides members of the armed forces with up to 21 days paid military leave per state fiscal year.Holidays:Some full-time employees are entitled to eleven paid holidays as follows:   New Year's Day - January 1Martin Luther King, Jr's birthday - Third Monday in JanuaryPresident's Day - Third Monday in FebruaryMemorial Day - Last Monday in MayJuneteenth - June 19Independence Day - July 4Labor Day - First Monday in SeptemberVeteran's Day - November 11Thanksgiving Day - Fourth Thursday in November & Friday afterChristmas Day - December 25Personal Holidays:Regular full-time and regular part-time employees, and employees occupying limited duration positions, shall also receive two additional paid personal holidays. Paid personal holidays shall only accrue for those employees on County payroll as of January 1 of each year or the first work day following January 1 and must be taken during the calendar year in which it was accrued.Furlough:Some Pierce County employees may be designated to receive 10 "furlough" days per year in lieu of holidays. Furlough days are available for use on January 1 and must be scheduled and taken within the calendar year. Employees who leave employment with Pierce County must reimburse the employer for used furlough days based upon the number of remaining holidays.Sick Leave:Sick leave accrues on a bi-weekly basis, at the rate of one day per month.Insurance Benefits:Employees and families are covered by medical (including vision), dental and basic life insurance.  There are multiple medical plans with very affordable monthly premiums that offer coverage throughout Pierce County.  Employees are eligible to enroll each year in a flexible spending plan, which enables them to use tax-deferred dollars toward their health care and dependent care expenses.  Employees also have the opportunity to participate in supplemental life and long term disability insurance plans.   To view premium rates, summary of benefit coverage, and other information, please visit the Pierce County Health Benefits website.Retirement and Deferred Compensation:Pierce County employees are members of the State of Washington's Department of Retirement System (DRS) and depending on the position or previous DRS enrollment will be able to enroll in one of many programs DRS offers.  For additional information, check out the Department of Retirement Systems' web site.Employees also have the ability to participate in the Nationwide Deferred Compensation Plan.  This is a supplemental retirement savings program  that allows you control over the amount of pre-tax salary dollars you defer as well as the flexibility to choose between multiple investment options.Social Security:All Pierce County employees are covered by the federal Social Security and Medicare systems. The county and the employee pay an equal amount into the system.Miscellaneous Benefits:Please visit Pierce County's Benefits website for more information.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        How did you hear about this opportunity?
        
        
                Pierce County Website
                governmentjobs.com
                Indeed
                LinkedIn
                Glassdoor
                Other Website
                Job Fair
                Pierce County Employee
                Other
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        If you chose Other, Pierce County Employee, or  Other Website, please provide details (name, site, etc).
        
        
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        After closely reviewing this job announcement, why do you believe you would be an outstanding candidate for this opportunity?
        
        
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Did you upload a resume and a cover letter addressing your previous elections experience and responsibilities?
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        