=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Registration Specialist/Senior Registration Specialist
Salary: $16.84 - $30.57 HOUR
Location: 80120, CO, CO, 80120
Employer: Arapahoe County
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2021-11-07
Job Type: Full-time
Job Number: 04570
Department: Clerk and Recorder's Office
Division: Elections
Opening Date: 11/08/2021
Closing Date: 12/3/2021 11:59 PM Mountain

BENEFITS:
  • Medical, Dental, and Vision Insurance
  • Life and Supplemental Life Insurance
  • Short and Long Term Disability
  • Mandatory Pension Plan
  • Deferred Compensation Plan
  • Pre-paid Legal Services
  • Vacation and Sick Leaves
  • Holiday pay
  • Training and Educational Reimbursement Opportunities

For a more detailed listing of our benefit programs, click on the MENU link on the left and then Benefits Summary.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

The Elections Division of the Arapahoe County Clerk and Recorder's Office has multiple openings for Registration Specialists or Senior Registration Specialists depending on qualifications and experience.

The Registration Specialist is an entry level position responsible for supporting the daily operations of the Voter Services Team in the Arapahoe County Clerk and Recorder’s Office. This position is responsible for providing excellent customer service while assisting with voter registration processing and upkeep of database integrity. The Registration Specialist must be able to complete assignments of basic scope or complexity with limited assistance.

The Senior Registration Specialist is an experienced position responsible for supporting the daily operations of the Voter Services Team in the Arapahoe County Clerk and Recorder’s Office. This position is responsible for providing excellent customer service while assisting with voter registration and upkeep of database integrity. The Senior Registration Specialist must be able to complete assignments of any scope or complexity with minimal to no assistance. This position also must be able to perform specialized tasks and projects to promote best practices and efficiencies.

Registration Specialist salary range: $16.84 - $25.26/hour
Senior Registration Specialist salary range: $20.38 - $30.57/hour

**This position is eligible for remote/hybrid work as defined by department guidelines.



The following duty statements are illustrative of the functions of the job; however, some other duties may be required. The County reserves the right to modify or change the duties or functions of the job at any time.



Assist election customers at the counter, by telephone and by email by providing specific, complete and accurate information.
Records, scans and processes documents into Colorado’s SCORE voter registration database.
Works with voters in a professional and tactful manner to resolve complaints or concerns.
Provides clerical and administrative support for the Section as needed.
Receives, opens, and routes incoming mail.
Keeps up to date on state, federal and local statutes, policies and guidelines.
Assists with long and short-term projects, as assigned by the Voter Services Manager, such as Registration Reports, Registration Cancellations, National Change of Address, Petitions, High School Registrar outreach, Arapahoe confined voter outreach, voter hotline phone banks, and Election Letters.
Performs other duties as assigned.

Senior Registration Specialist:
All duties listed above, and:
Assists with training temporary workers and answering questions from team members regarding SCORE and office processes and procedures and state/federal election requirements.

Skills, Abilities and Competencies:

Basic knowledge of Colorado’s laws and requirements related to voter registration, as well as knowledge of Colorado’s SCORE voter registration database
Strong computer skills and advanced knowledge of Microsoft Office Suite (Word, Excel, Outlook and PowerPoint).
Ability to attain certification by the Secretary of State as a Colorado Election Official.
Demonstrated record of success as a customer service representative in a local government agency or similar organization.
Demonstrated ability to plan, monitor and complete projects in a timely manner.
Flexible, punctual, reliable and willing to work paid overtime if necessary.
Effective verbal and written communication skills.
Ability to engage with voters and coworkers in a professional, articulate and friendly manner.
Ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships with fellow employees, the public, supervisors and other County officials.
Ability to exercise tact and discretion in handling confidential information.
Ability to apply critical thinking to analyze and evaluate data, policies and procedures.
Senior Registration Specialist:
All requirements listed above, and:
Working knowledge of Colorado’s laws and requirements related to voter registration, as well as knowledge of Colorado’s SCORE voter registration database.
Certification by the Secretary of State as a Colorado Election Official.

Behavioral Competencies:
Service First
Excellent Quality
Responsive Government
Visionary Thinking
Innovation
Caring Leadership
Effective Communication
Fiscal Responsibility
Integrity
Respect for Others
Safety
Teamwork

Education and Experience:
High school diploma or equivalent
Senior Registration Specialist: 
High school diploma or equivalent
At least 2 years of relevant experience in a County Clerk’s office involving voter registration
Any equivalent combination of education and work experience that satisfy the requirements of the job will be considered.
Preferred education and experience:
Experience working within a County Clerk’s Office involving voter registration
Preferred education and experience - Senior Registration Specialist:
Bachelor’s degree in political science, public/business administration, organizational development, or a related field is preferred

Pre-Employment Additional Requirements:
Must successfully pass pre-employment testing which includes an acceptable motor vehicle record (MVR) and background check.



Work Environment: 

Work is generally confined to a standard office environment
Physical Demands:
Spends 80% of the time sitting and 20% of the time either standing or walking.
Occasionally lifts, carries, pulls or pushes up to 20 lbs.
Occasionally uses cart, dolly, or other equipment to carry in excess of 20 lbs.
Occasionally climbs, stoops, kneels, balances, reaches, crawls and crouches while performing office or work duties.
Verbal and auditory capacity enabling constant interpersonal communication through automated devices, such as telephones, radios, and similar; and in public meetings and personal interactions.
Constant use of eye, hand and finger coordination enabling the use of automated office machinery or equipment.
Visual capacity enabling constant use of computer or other work-related equipment.

 

* Arapahoe County does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, disability, genetic information, sexual orientation or any other status protected under the law. It is our intention that all qualified applicants be given equal opportunity in any term, condition, or privilege of employment and that selection decisions are based on job-related factors. Arapahoe County is committed to making employment accessible to persons with disabilities.

** In accordance with Senate Bill 23-058, applicants understand that Arapahoe County will not request or require the applicant to include their age, date of birth, or date of attendance/graduation date on the initial application. Applicants understand that Arapahoe County can request or require an individual to provide documentation including copies of certification, transcripts, and other materials created by a third party. The applicant understands that the applicant can redact, if they so choose, information that identifies age, date of birth, or dates of attendance/graduation from an educational institution on those requested/required certification, transcripts and other materials created by a third party. 

Toll Free Applicant Technical Support:  If you experience technical difficulty with the NEOGOV system (i.e. uploading or attaching documents to your online application), call NEOGOV technical support at 855-524-5627.  Helpful hints: if you are having difficulty uploading or attaching documents to your application, first, ensure your documents are PDF or Microsoft Word files, and second, close the document before you attempt uploading (attaching) it. 

As a Regular Full-Time employee at Arapahoe County Government, you are eligible for benefits such as:	Medical, Dental, and Vision Insurance	Life and Supplemental Life Insurance	Short and Long Term Disability	Mandatory Pension Plan	Deferred Compensation Plan	Pre-paid Legal Services	Vacation and Sick Leaves	Holiday pay	Training and Educational Reimbursement OpportunitiesFor a more detailed listing of our benefit programs, click on the MENU link on the left and then Benefits Summary.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Please choose the response that best describes your educational background.
        
        
                High School Graduate or GED
                Associate's Degree
                Bachelor's Degree
                Bachelor's Degree in political science, public administration, business administration, or a related field
                Master's Degree
                Master's Degree in political science, public administration, business administration, or a related field
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Please choose the best response that lists your clerical experience.
        
        
                No experience
                Less than 1 year of experience
                1 year to less than 2 years of experience
                2 years to less than 3 years of experience
                3 years to less than 4 years of experience
                4 years to less than 5 years of experience
                5 or more years of experience
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Do you have previous experience working in a Clerk and Recorder's office?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Please describe any experience you have working in elections, voter registration, voter outreach or similar activities.
        
        
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Are you bilingual?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        If yes, please state which additional language(s) you speak and describe any significant fluency skills (reading, speaking, writing) in a language other than English.
        
        
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Do you have a current, valid driver's license?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        How many moving traffic violations have you been cited for in the past two years?
        
        
                Less than 3 violations
                3 or 4 violations
                5 or more violations
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        Have you received eight or more points within the past twelve months or twelve or more points within the past twenty-four months against your driving record?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        In the past three years, have you had your driver's license revoked or suspended (for driving related offenses)?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

11

    

    
        If hired, are you able to furnish proof you are currently eligible to work in the U.S. without sponsorship?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        