=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Voter Registration Lead
Salary: $23.25 - $34.88 HOUR
Location: 80120, CO, CO, 80120
Employer: Arapahoe County
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2022-02-28
Job Type: Full-time
Job Number: 04575
Department: Clerk and Recorder's Office
Division: Elections
Opening Date: 03/01/2022
Closing Date: 6/14/2022 4:55 PM Mountain

BENEFITS:
  • Medical, Dental, and Vision Insurance
  • Life and Supplemental Life Insurance
  • Short and Long Term Disability
  • Mandatory Pension Plan
  • Deferred Compensation Plan
  • Pre-paid Legal Services
  • Vacation and Sick Leaves
  • Holiday pay
  • Training and Educational Reimbursement Opportunities

For a more detailed listing of our benefit programs, click on the MENU link on the left and then Benefits Summary.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

The Registration Lead is a leadership position responsible for supporting the daily operations and personnel of the Voter Services Team in the Arapahoe County Clerk and Recorder’s Office. This position is responsible for providing excellent customer service while assisting with voter registration and upkeep of database integrity. The Lead also acts as a positive and supportive role model, offering assistance with difficult transactions and providing on-the-job training for peers.  
 
The Registration Lead must have advanced knowledge of Colorado’s laws and requirements related to voter registration, as well as knowledge of Colorado’s SCORE voter registration database. Additionally, the Registration Lead must be certified to process voter registration forms as a Colorado Election Official. The ideal candidate is a positive and effective team player who is able to work independently, as well as provide a professional example and guidance to peers.

**This position is eligible for remote/hybrid work as defined by department guidelines.



The following duty statements are illustrative of the essential functions of the job and do not include other non essential or marginal duties that may be required.  The County reserves the right to modify or change the duties or essential functions of the job at any time.


Assist election customers at the counter, by telephone and mail by providing specific, complete and accurate information.
Records, scans and processes documents into Colorado’s SCORE voter registration database.
Works with customers in a professional and tactful manner to resolve complaints or concerns. 
Provides clerical and administrative support for the department as needed.
Receives, opens, and routes incoming mail.
Supports team members in an encouraging and professional manner; provides expertise to assist with complex transactions and functions.
Trains new and incumbent employees by identifying training and development needs; designing materials; delivering on-the-job training; and reviewing the progress of trainees through questionnaires and discussions.
Keeps up-to-date on state, federal and local statutes, policies and guidelines and incorporates new developments into on-the-job training for peers.
Leads long and short term projects, as assigned by the Voter Services Manager, such as Registration Reports, Address Library, Registration Cancellations, National Change of Address, Petitions, High School Registrar and Election Letters.
Responsible for leading the merging process of duplicate voter records. 
Responsible for creating/printing/proofing voter registration related mail correspondence.
Coordinate gaps in counter and phone coverage.
Performs other duties as assigned.
SKILLS AND ABILITIES:

Strong computer skills and advanced knowledge of Microsoft Office Suite (Word, Excel, Outlook and PowerPoint) and Adobe Professional. 
Advanced knowledge of voter registration functions of the Colorado’s SCORE voter registration database.
Certification by the Secretary of State as a Colorado Election Official.
Demonstrated record of success as a customer service representative in a local government agency or similar organization. 
Demonstrated ability to plan, monitor and complete projects in a timely manner.
Knowledge of effective on-the-job training methods and techniques.
Flexible, punctual, reliable and willing to work paid overtime if necessary.
Ability to engage with customers and coworkers in a professional, articulate and friendly manner. 
Ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships with fellow employees, the public, supervisors and other County officials.
Ability to exercise tact and discretion in handling confidential information.
BEHAVIORAL COMPETENCIES:
Accountability
Accessibility
Inclusivity
Integrity

EDUCATION and EXPERIENCE:

Bachelor’s degree in business administration, public administration, organizational development, or a related field 
At least 3 years of experience in a County Clerk’s office involving voter registration or 
Any equivalent combination of education and work experience that satisfy the requirements of the job will be considered. 
PREFERRED EXPERIENCE:
At least 5 years of experience in a County Clerk’s office involving voter registration.
PRE-EMPLOYMENT ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
Must successfully pass pre-employment testing which includes an acceptable motor vehicle record (MVR) and background check. 
Security clearance required: will require fingerprinting and a Colorado Bureau of Investigation (CBI) background check



WORK ENVIRONMENT:

Work is generally confined to a standard office environment.

PHYSICAL DEMANDS:
The following are some of the physical demands commonly associated with this position.
Spends 90% of the time sitting and 10% of the time either standing or walking.
Occasionally lifts, carries, pulls or pushes up to 20 lbs.
Occasionally uses cart, dolly, or other equipment to carry in excess of 25 lbs.
Occasionally climbs, stoops, kneels, balances, reaches, crawls and crouches while performing office or work duties.
Verbal and auditory capacity enabling constant interpersonal communication through automated devices, such as telephones, radios, and similar; and in public meetings and personal interactions.
Constant use of eye, hand and finger coordination enabling the use of automated office machinery or equipment.
Visual capacity enabling constant use of computer or other work-related equipment.

Definitions:
Occasionally: Activity exists less than 1/3 of the time.
Frequently: Activity exists between 1/3 and 2/3 of the time.
Constantly: Activity exists more than 2/3 of the time.

Toll Free Applicant Technical Support:  If you experience technical difficulty with the NEOGOV system (i.e. uploading or attaching documents to your online application), call NEOGOV technical support at 855-524-5627.  Helpful hints: if you are having difficulty uploading or attaching documents to your application, first, ensure your documents are PDF or Microsoft Word files, and second, close the document before you attempt uploading (attaching) it.

 

* Arapahoe County does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, disability, genetic information, sexual orientation or any other status protected under the law. It is our intention that all qualified applicants be given equal opportunity in any term, condition, or privilege of employment and that selection decisions are based on job-related factors. Arapahoe County is committed to making employment accessible to persons with disabilities.

** In accordance with Senate Bill 23-058, applicants understand that Arapahoe County will not request or require the applicant to include their age, date of birth, or date of attendance/graduation date on the initial application. Applicants understand that Arapahoe County can request or require an individual to provide documentation including copies of certification, transcripts, and other materials created by a third party. The applicant understands that the applicant can redact, if they so choose, information that identifies age, date of birth, or dates of attendance/graduation from an educational institution on those requested/required certification, transcripts and other materials created by a third party. 

Toll Free Applicant Technical Support:  If you experience technical difficulty with the NEOGOV system (i.e. uploading or attaching documents to your online application), call NEOGOV technical support at 855-524-5627.  Helpful hints: if you are having difficulty uploading or attaching documents to your application, first, ensure your documents are PDF or Microsoft Word files, and second, close the document before you attempt uploading (attaching) it. 

As a Regular Full-Time employee at Arapahoe County Government, you are eligible for benefits such as:	Medical, Dental, and Vision Insurance	Life and Supplemental Life Insurance	Short and Long Term Disability	Mandatory Pension Plan	Deferred Compensation Plan	Pre-paid Legal Services	Vacation and Sick Leaves	Holiday pay	Training and Educational Reimbursement OpportunitiesFor a more detailed listing of our benefit programs, click on the MENU link on the left and then Benefits Summary.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Choose the response that best describes your educational background.
        
        
                High School Diploma or GED equivalent
                Some college courses
                Associates Degree
                Bachelor's Degree
                Bachelor's degree in business administration, public administration, organizational development, or a related field
                Master's Degree
                Master's degree in business administration, public administration, organizational development, or a related field
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Choose the response that best describes your years of experience working in a Clerk's Office involving Voter Registration.
        
        
                No experience
                Less than 1 year of experience
                1 year to less than 2 years of experience
                2 years to less than 3 years of experience
                3 years to less than 4 years of experience
                4 years to less than 5 years of experience
                5 years to less than 6 years of experience
                6 years to less than 7 years of experience
                7 or more years of experience
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Have you ever worked within a County Clerk's Office?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Please describe any experience you have working in elections, voter registration, voter outreach or similar activities.
        
        
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Choose the response that best describes your years of leadership experience where you were accountable for the work quality and quantity that others produced.
        
        
                No Experience
                Some to less than 1 year of experience
                1 year to less than 3 years of experience
                3 years to less than 5 years of experience
                5 or more years of experience
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Briefly explain what you think your top 3 priorities as a Lead will be.
        
        
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Choose the response that best describes your years of experience in a supervisory or lead worker role.
        
        
                No Experience
                Some experience to less than 1 year of experience
                1 year to less than 2 years of experience
                2 years to less than 3 years of experience
                3 years to less than 4 years of experience
                4 or more years of experience
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Choose the response that best describes how often you currently interact with customers where English is not their first language.
        
        
                Never
                Rarely
                Sometimes
                Frequently
                Always
                Other (explain below)
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        If you selected "other" to the previous question, please explain below:
        
        
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        Are you bilingual?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

11

    

    
        If yes, please state which additional language(s) you speak and describe any significant fluency skills (reading, speaking, writing) in a language other than English.
        
        
        
    


    
        

12

    

    
        Do you have a current, valid driver's license?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

13

    

    
        How many moving traffic violations have you been cited for in the past two years?
        
        
                Less than 3 violations
                3 or 4 violations
                5 or more violations
        
    


    
        

14

    

    
        Have you received eight or more points within the past twelve months or twelve or more points within the past twenty-four months against your driving record?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

15

    

    
        In the past three years, have you had your driver's license revoked or suspended (for driving related offenses)?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

16

    

    
        If hired, are you able to furnish proof you are currently eligible to work in the U.S. without sponsorship?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

17

    

    
        Are you able to perform the essential functions/physical demands of the job with or without an accommodation?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        