=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Voter Services Manager
Salary: $66,520.48 - $106,260.70 YEAR
Location: 80120, CO, CO, 80120
Employer: Arapahoe County
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2021-11-11
Job Type: Full-time
Job Number: 04576
Department: Clerk and Recorder's Office
Division: Elections
Opening Date: 11/12/2021
Closing Date: 12/3/2021 11:59 PM Mountain

BENEFITS:
  • Medical, Dental, and Vision Insurance
  • Life and Supplemental Life Insurance
  • Short and Long Term Disability
  • Mandatory Pension Plan
  • Deferred Compensation Plan
  • Pre-paid Legal Services
  • Vacation and Sick Leaves
  • Holiday pay
  • Training and Educational Reimbursement Opportunities

For a more detailed listing of our benefit programs, click on the MENU link on the left and then Benefits Summary.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

The Voter Service Manager position has direct responsibility and supervision of the entire Voter Service Team. This position will assist with complex administrative and supervisory work in directing daily activities. The Voter Service Manager supports the Elections Deputy Director, Chief Deputy Director and the Clerk and Recorder with issues concerning all operations of Elections. The following statements are illustrative of the essential function of the job.

**This position is eligible for remote/hybrid work as defined by department guidelines.

The following duty statements are illustrative of the essential functions of the job and do not include other non essential or marginal duties that may be required.  The County reserves the right to modify or change the duties or essential functions of the job at any time.

Manages the daily operation of the Voter Service team which may include but is not limited to, legislative guidance, budget guidance, business process implementation, data entry, voter registration, voter outreach, address mapping-tracking, voter call center, election mail processing, coordination with external and internal stakeholders, and overseeing staff.
Manages, and ensures statutory compliance of voter service functions including: voter registration, voter merge, National Change of Address, Address Confidentiality Program, Uniform and Overseas Voters, Health Care Facilities, CDOC updates, coordinating County jail registration and voting, high school outreach, signature verification, voter-ballot curing, and any and all similar voter services.
Serves as the project manager and primary point of contact for SCORE database, CDOC/CDOR/CDPHE, and any and all voter services.  
Responsible for the evaluations of the Voter Service team as directed by the Election Deputy Director.
Informs the Elections Deputy Director on the status of projects and/or changes within the team.
Attends association and professional meetings to enhance and maintain knowledge of trends and developments in elections, as determined necessary by the Elections Deputy Director, Chief Deputy Director and/or Clerk and Recorder.
Technical expert of Voter Service team software, business processes, statutes, rules and regulations. 
Voter registration and voter service subject matter expert.
Responsible for overall timekeeping, coverage and leave within the Voter Service team.
DECISION MAKING:
Recommends and develops solutions to issues affecting the Voter Service team.
Delegates decision-making responsibility and authority over function(s) or operation(s) to lead as appropriate.
Manages and resolves difficult problems or customers within the Voter Service team.
Functions collaboratively when making office decisions as a member of the management team.
LEADERSHIP:
Exhibits strong commitment to the highest level of ethical standards, compassion, empowerment, confidence, and innovation.
Influences the overall direction of the Voter Service team through collaborative leadership.
Models the values and ethics of the County and leads by practicing and implementing Align Arapahoe initiatives.
Acts as point of contact with various internal and external agencies including the Secretary of State's office, election software and hardware vendors, Colorado County Clerk's Associations, political organizations, municipal governments, school districts, and other election coordinating entities.
Shows initiative, is a self-starter and works independently.
Actively engages as a team member, providing input and feedback.
PLANNING AND ORGANIZING:
Conducts long-range planning studies on Voter Service issues and recommends projects, programs, and procedures to achieve operational objectives.
Maintains a statistical analysis of the Voter Service team derived from the weekly/monthly reports generated by election software systems. Develops long-range planning studies on problems and assists with finding solutions.
Ensures programs and projects keep to schedules and are accomplished within budget projections and relevant performance measures.
HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT:
Collaborates with the Elections Deputy Director regarding staffing plans to meet organizational, functional and/or operational requirements.
Manages and directs staff, sets work priorities, provides guidance and instruction on expected outcomes, and delegates and reviews work.
Responds to personnel issues, conferring with Elections Deputy Director.
Sets performance standards/objectives for staff within the Voter Service team.

SKILLS & ABILITIES:
Thorough knowledge of state statutes, rules, regulations, procedures and forms applicable to the operation of the Voter Service team.
Communication skills, both oral and written, which enable courteous and diplomatic interactions with the public, vendors, staff, and other County divisions.
Exceptional creative thinking and problem-solving skills.
Understanding of intermediate budget management, system analysis, and process analysis/development.
Supervisory skills including team building, training, and work assignment.
Ability to grasp complex and widely varied issues quickly, develop plans to implement actions to address the issues, and be able to communicate those issues in a clear, concise manner to management, staff, entities, and vendors.
Ability to work as part of the Elections Division and promote teamwork with the staff.
Ability to understand and follow oral and written instructions.

BEHAVIORAL COMPETENCIES:
Service First
Excellent Quality
Responsive Government
Visionary Thinking
Innovation
Caring Leadership
Effective Communication
Fiscal Responsibility
Integrity
Respect for Others
Safety
Teamwork

EDUCATION:

High School Diploma or GED equivalent
Three (3) years of Elections-related experience
One (1) in a lead role

EXPERIENCE:
Supervisory experience
Bachelor's degree in Political Science, computer science, public/business administration, communications or a closely related field

Any equivalent combination of education and work experience that satisfy the requirements of the job may be considered.

PRE-EMPLOYMENT ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
Must successfully pass pre-employment testing which may include an acceptable motor vehicle record (MVR) and background check.

WORK ENVIRONMENT:

Work is generally confined to a standard office environment.
 
PHYSICAL DEMANDS:
The following are some of the physical demands commonly associated with this position.
Spends 70% of the time sitting and 30% of the time either standing or walking.
Occasionally lifts, carries, pulls or pushes up to 20 lbs.
Occasionally uses cart, dolly, or other equipment to carry in excess of 20 lbs.
Occasionally climbs, stoops, kneels, balances, reaches, crawls and crouches while performing office or work duties.
Verbal and auditory capacity enabling constant interpersonal communication through automated devices, such as telephones, radios, and similar; and in public meetings and personal interactions.
Constant use of eye, hand and finger coordination enabling the use of automated office machinery or equipment.
Visual capacity enabling constant use of computer or other work related equipment.

Definitions:
Occasionally: Activity exists less than 1/3 of the time.
Frequently: Activity exists between 1/3 and 2/3 of the time.
Constantly: Activity exists more than 2/3 of the time.

Toll Free Applicant Technical Support:  If you experience technical difficulty with the NEOGOV system (i.e. uploading or attaching documents to your online application), call NEOGOV technical support at 855-524-5627.  Helpful hints: if you are having difficulty uploading or attaching documents to your application, first, ensure your documents are PDF or Microsoft Word files, and second, close the document before you attempt uploading (attaching) it.

 

* Arapahoe County does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, disability, genetic information, sexual orientation or any other status protected under the law. It is our intention that all qualified applicants be given equal opportunity in any term, condition, or privilege of employment and that selection decisions are based on job-related factors. Arapahoe County is committed to making employment accessible to persons with disabilities.

** In accordance with Senate Bill 23-058, applicants understand that Arapahoe County will not request or require the applicant to include their age, date of birth, or date of attendance/graduation date on the initial application. Applicants understand that Arapahoe County can request or require an individual to provide documentation including copies of certification, transcripts, and other materials created by a third party. The applicant understands that the applicant can redact, if they so choose, information that identifies age, date of birth, or dates of attendance/graduation from an educational institution on those requested/required certification, transcripts and other materials created by a third party. 

Toll Free Applicant Technical Support:  If you experience technical difficulty with the NEOGOV system (i.e. uploading or attaching documents to your online application), call NEOGOV technical support at 855-524-5627.  Helpful hints: if you are having difficulty uploading or attaching documents to your application, first, ensure your documents are PDF or Microsoft Word files, and second, close the document before you attempt uploading (attaching) it. 

As a Regular Full-Time employee at Arapahoe County Government, you are eligible for benefits such as:	Medical, Dental, and Vision Insurance	Life and Supplemental Life Insurance	Short and Long Term Disability	Mandatory Pension Plan	Deferred Compensation Plan	Pre-paid Legal Services	Vacation and Sick Leaves	Holiday pay	Training and Educational Reimbursement OpportunitiesFor a more detailed listing of our benefit programs, click on the MENU link on the left and then Benefits Summary.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Choose the response that best describes your educational background.
        
        
                High School Graduate or GED equivalent
                Some college classes
                Associates Degree
                Associates Degree in Political Science, computer science, public/business administration, Communications or a related field
                Bachelor's Degree
                Bachelor's Degree in Political Science, computer science, public/business administration, Communications or a related field
                Master's Degree
                Master's Degree in Political Science, computer science, public/business administration, Communications or a related field
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Please choose the response that best describes your years of Election-related experience.
        
        
                Less than 1 year of experience
                1 year to less than 2 years of experience
                2 year to less than 3 years of experience
                3 year to less than 4 years of experience
                4 or more years of experience
                5 or more years of experience
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Please give a description in detail of your experience working in Elections.
        
        
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Please choose the answer that best describes your years of supervisory experience.
        
        
                No Experience
                Less than 1 year of experience
                1 year to less than 2 years of experience
                2 years to less than 3 years of experience
                3 years to less than 4 years of experience
                4 or more years of experience
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        This position has direct responsibility and supervision of the entire Voter Service Team.  Please describe in detail your previous supervisory experience as it relates directly to this position. Specifically, describe your experience with writing and delivering annual performance reviews for direct reports, monitoring work performance, writing and delivering corrective action documentation, selection/hiring/onboarding, coaching and mentoring, etc.
        
        
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Do you have a current, valid driver's license?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        How many moving traffic violations have you been cited for in the past two years?
        
        
                Less than 3 violations
                3 or 4 violations
                5 or more violations
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Have you received eight or more points within the past twelve months or twelve or more points within the past twenty-four months against your driving record?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        In the past three years, have you had your driver's license revoked or suspended (for driving related offences)?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        If hired, are you able to furnish proof you are currently eligible to work in the U.S. without sponsorship?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        