=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Assistant Registrar of Voters
Salary: $194,184.52 - $249,180.63 YEAR
Location: Throughout the County of Santa Clara, CA, CA, 95110
Employer: County of Santa Clara
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2025-06-30
Job Type: Executive Management
Job Number: 25-A21-A
Department: Registrar of Voters
Opening Date: 06/30/2025
Bargaining Unit: 91

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Under general direction, the Assistant Registrar of Voters supports the planning, organization, and oversight of the County Registrar of Voters Department.
 
This executive leadership position reports directly to the Registrar of Voters and plays a key role in administering and managing departmental operations. The department is responsible for voter registration, the conduct of elections, and related electoral services. The Assistant Registrar of Voters helps ensure that all activities are carried out efficiently, accurately, and in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. This position may assume the responsibility of the Department in the absence of the Registrar of Voters.

Filing Period and Application Procedure
Final Filing Date: Continuous until filled. The first review date is Friday, August 15, 2025. The recruitment may be extended or closed as early as 10 days after issue date. You are encouraged to apply as soon as possible and to monitor this site for updated closing information.

For the brochure, click here! 
 
This recruitment requires the submission of an online application. No paper applications will be accepted. Applicants must apply online at www.sccjobs.org.
 
It is important that the following information be included in your application packet as it will be evaluated during the competitive review process: 
 
 1. Résumé;
 2. Cover letter explaining why you are the ideal candidate including specific examples from your experience (maximum of 3 pages);
 3. Complete responses to the supplemental questions.

Thorough referencing and a background investigation will be conducted once mutual interest has been established. The finalist will be asked to provide a minimum of five references, and prior authorization from the finalist will be obtained by Executive Services.
  
Questions regarding this executive recruitment may be directed to Kendra Conrad, Executive Services at (408) 299.6874 or kendra.conrad@esa.sccgov.org.
 
STAY INFORMED ON OUR LATEST EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP RECRUITMENTS
Subscribe to our Executive Leadership Careers Newsletter! Click here  

Or follow us on:
Instagram  Instagram.com/SCCExecRecruitment

 



Assists in formulating policies and procedures for carrying out the department's goals and objectives; 
Suggests and implements changes in methods and procedures to improve operations;
Oversees the day-to-day operations of the department;
Plans and organizes activities related to conducting federal, state, local, and special elections; 
Responds to questions from the public and other agencies concerning election processes and procedures;
Assists in the interpretation and implementation of laws, rules, regulations, and codes related to voter registration and the conduct of elections;
Assists in the analysis of proposed legislation and regulations affecting County election procedures, in accordance with the County’s legislative policies and priorities;
Supervises the ballot processing operations;
Coordinates and oversees voter registration activities in the county;
Supervises staffing and operations of voting locations throughout the county;
Assists in safeguarding the physical and technological security of election systems and processes and maintaining their accuracy and integrity; 
Assists in the preparation, monitoring, and control of the department budget;
Assumes disaster service worker responsibilities as assigned; and
Performs related work, as required.

Sufficient training, education, and experience to demonstrate the ability to perform the above tasks and the possession and direct application of the following knowledge and abilities.

Training and Experience Note: The required knowledge and abilities would typically be attained through education and experience equivalent to a bachelor's degree in public or business administration or a related field and three (3) years of recent managerial level experience, which involved the supervision of staff, management of a function, and analysis. Experience in elections administration is highly desirable.
  
Knowledge of:

Principles and practices of management necessary to plan, organize, direct, manage, and evaluate programs, administrative policies, organizational structures, and staff; 
Principles of governmental organization, administration, and budgeting;
The legislative process and the functions and operations of federal, state, and local government;
Principles of management analysis and organizational design necessary to formulate and implement administrative policy;
Modern technology systems and related applications for systems management;
Effective physical security, technological security, and incident response practices;
Principles of government transparency and public records management and disclosure; and
Techniques of effective public and media relations.

Ability to:
Plan, organize, and direct large, complex, logistical operations involving a large number of personnel and locations;
Work under extreme pressure of heavy peak workloads, statutory deadlines, and intense public scrutiny;
Create cross-functional teams and work collaboratively with committees, ensuring effective partnership and communication;  
Interpret, explain, and enforce the provisions of governing laws and regulations;
Analyze new or proposed legislation and evaluate and report on its impact to the department's operations;
Establish and maintain effective working relationships with government officials, the media, and the general public;
Plan for the provision of services, along with effective outreach and engagement, to address the needs of diverse populations and communities;
Investigate and analyze administrative problems and implement solutions;
Prepare clear, concise correspondence, reports, and instructions; and
Present ideas effectively, clearly convey information, and speak clearly and articulately to groups.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Please answer the following questions and submit your responses with a completed application and resume. This information is REQUIRED, as it will be used to initially determine minimum qualifications. For those applicants meeting the employment standards, this information will be critical in the subsequent competitive assessment to identify those candidates to be invited to the oral examination. 

Resumes will not be accepted in lieu of required supplemental responses. 

You may attach a separate sheet and type "see attached" in the required field for each question. If you are attaching a separate document to answer the supplemental questionnaire, the responses should be limited to 2-3 pages.
 
Do you understand this requirement?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Describe your recent experience in a managerial role, specifically highlighting your responsibilities in supervising staff, overseeing functional operations, and performing analytical responsibilities. In your response, include the following:  

a) Your functional area(s) of responsibility; 
b) The size and type of the organization; 
c) Your position and the position you reported to; and 
d) The number and level of staff managed.
        
        
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Please describe your experience administering voter registration or election activity at the local or statewide level. If no experience, indicate "N/A."
        
        
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Please provide any other relevant information that would demonstrate your qualifications for this position.
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        