=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Assistant
Salary: $24.36 - $29.68 HOUR
Location: Clallam County Courthouse, WA, WA, 98362
Employer: Clallam County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2025-07-21
Job Type: Regular Full-Time
Job Number: 2025-55
Department: Auditor
Opening Date: 07/21/2025
Closing Date: 8/4/2025 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Non-Exempt
Bargaining Unit: Teamster
Grant Funded: No

BENEFITS:
  • Medical - Premera Blue Cross Blue Shield
  • Dental - Delta Dental of Washington
  • Vision - Northwest Benefit Network
  • Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA)
  • HRA Veba (select positions)
  • Life and disability insurance (select positions)
  • Wellness Benefit Program
  • Infant at Work Program
  • Employee Assistance Program
  • Transportation Program/Transit Pass
  • Training and Career Development Program

Retirement:
Employees are covered under the PERS retirement plan provided through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems and Social Security.	Sheriff's Office Employees are covered under LEOFF2 and PSERS.
Deferred Compensation:
Deferred Compensation Program 457(b) - Tax Deferred Savings Program	Deferred Compensation Program 401(a) - Tax Deferred Savings Program
Vacation:
Generous Vacation and Paid Sick Leave
11 Paid Holidays Annually 			New Year's Day		Martin Luther King, Jr. Day		Presidents' Day		Memorial Day		Juneteenth Day		Independence Day		Labor Day		Veteran's Day		Thanksgiving Day		day following Thanksgiving		Christmas Day			4 Personal Days (32 hours floating holiday)	Employment Vacation Donation Program	Vacation Leave Accrual (Unless otherwise provided by contract, all regular full-time employees shall accrue vacation leave monthly based upon the following schedule):			0-48 months = 8 hours per month 		49-108 months = 10 hours per month		109-168 months = 12 hours per month		169-204 months = 14 hours per month		Over 204 months = 16.67 hours per month
Sick Leave:
Full-time employees accrue sick leave at the rate of 8 hours per month. Eligibility for use of sick leave is established after one month of continuous employment.
**Part-time employee's benefit contributions and leave accruals are prorated.
NOTE: This is a general overview of the benefits offered through employment with Clallam County, and every effort has been made to ensure its accuracy. Please contact Human Resources at 360.417.2402 if further clarification is needed.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Clallam County is seeking a detail-oriented Elections Assistant to support the essential functions of the Elections Division. Acting with the authority of a Deputy Auditor, this position helps conduct elections, maintain accurate voter registration records, and ensure timely preparation of ballots, voter pamphlets, and election equipment in compliance with Washington State laws and county procedures. The Elections Assistant also assists with ballot processing, jurisdictional updates, operating the ballot tabulation system, and training election workers. This role plays a vital part in ensuring fair, secure, and efficient elections.

Perform various clerical and receptionist duties including recordkeeping, general correspondence, answer phones, and public service by attending to the public candidates, county departments, stakeholders, various state agencies, and jurisdictions.
Assists with maintaining and ensuring all voter registration information is up to date in the Statewide Voter Registration Database per applicable statute and county procedures.
Assist with implementation of state law changes as they pertain to voter registration and elections.
Create the Sample Ballot for each election and various other election documents, such as Candidate Guidelines, Online Voters’ Guide, printed Local Voters’ Pamphlet, and instruction inserts. Coordinate with printers of pamphlets and ballots. Responsible for completion of such projects within the required timelines.
Accept, process, and record declarations of candidacy, oaths of office, annexations, resolutions, petitions, candidate recalls, voter registration challenges, and various other official documents.
Maintain current information of elected officials at federal, state, and local levels.
Coordinate with manager to oversee daily processing of ballots during elections.
Coordinate, assist with training of, and oversee daily activities of the opening board and other part-time employees.
Refer to manager or Secretary of State any election problems, as they occur to ensure voting activities are not obstructed.
Organize, archive, index, store and secure Clallam County election documents.
Communicate information effectively to multiple groups of stakeholders, sometimes with competing interests.
Attend and participate in mandatory on-going training including certifications and annual training.
Maintain up to date knowledge of changes in statutes governing elections.
Attend and participate in staff meetings.
Help in maintaining and coordinating curbside ballot drop off boxes, including general maintenance of drop boxes, ballot pick up times, staffing, and securing during elections.
Program, test, and operate ballot design, printing, adjudication, and tabulation software.
Perform or assist in the preventative maintenance of election equipment.
Assist with annual training of election observers and political party observers.
Work toward long-term improvements in processes, procedures, and technology.
Assists with interpretation of State and Federal Law to ensure compliance with all applicable Federal and State requirements and county procedures.
Process incoming and outgoing County mail and related correspondence or information before forwarding, mailing, or otherwise distributing as directed; identify priority and/or time-sensitive matters; and maintain security and confidentiality.
Perform other related elections and voter registration functions; developed and assigned by designee.
As part of the core responsibilities, the employee is expected to fulfill their primary duties while also taking on additional responsibilities as directed by their manager or lead.

Requires knowledge of the field of assignment sufficient to perform thoroughly and accurately the full scope of responsibility as illustrated by examples in the above job description

Education/Training

High school diploma or general education degree (GED); prior experience in customer service required. To perform this job successfully, an individual should have a great deal of computer knowledge and ability, showing proficiency in Microsoft Office Suite.

Experience

Requires prior work history with demonstrated ability to perform the duties and responsibilities within the Elections Assistant classification.

Special Requirements:

After two years, possess or have the ability to acquire a State of Washington certification as an Election Administrator and ability to maintain such status by attending and participating in mandatory on-going training including certifications and annual training as set out in the State Certification and Training Program. Individual may be required to be deputized and/or bonded. In addition, requires a willingness to work extended periods of time and on weekends, as required, especially during elections.

Licensing/Certification Requirements

U.S. citizenship (selected positions)

Pass polygraph test (selected positions)

Pass Psychological Evaluation (selected positions)

Pass Physical (selected positions)

Drug testing (selected positions)

Pass Background Check

Pass OSHA/Designated Required Training

Note: Any first aid rendered by such persons is rendered only as a collateral duty responding solely to injuries resulting from workplace incidents, generally at the location where the incident occurred.




For a complete copy of the job description - click HERE