As a State of Arizona employee, you can choose from more than 1,700 types of career opportunities, all with the same employer, making job mobility and career advancement easy.
A great benefit of working for the State of Arizona is a fantastic work/life balance. State employees enjoy challenging work, popular remote work options, comprehensive health and wellness benefits, and career growth opportunities.
The State of Arizona is a Veteran Supportive Employer, and we value employing military veterans for their unique skills and training. Please apply!
“In the past 15 years of working at ADEQ I have had the opportunity to use my experience to study and protect streams and lakes around our beautiful State. Working in locations like the Grand Canyon fuels my passion and dedication for my job!”
Meghan Smart
ADEQ
“My greatest joy working for AHCCCS has been and continues to be the people that I work with. I have the greatest supervisor in the world! Working with such a great team makes it so easy to come to work and do the best job possible.”
Nick Lee, Medical Claims Adjudication, Processing and Testing
AHCCCS
"As a military veteran, it was really important to me and my family that I could have a stable job with the State, grow my career like I want, and then retire with a real pension. I love working for the State of Arizona!"
Javier Ramirez, ADOT Program Manager
Office of Continuous Improvement
“I love working in a diverse environment with great support from Management. I’m proud to be a State of Arizona Employee!”
Jean Jackson, Investigator III
Industrial Commission of Arizona
"Working for Game and Fish has given me a new perspective on the extraordinary work my colleagues do to conserve and protect our native wildlife."
Maria Ayala, HR Operations, Shared Services
AGFD
Arizona’s beauty beckons you. Come, fulfill your dreams and build a life of opportunity.
This website uses cookies.
We use cookies to personalize content such as job recommendations, and to analyze our traffic. You consent to our cookies if you click "I Accept". If you click on "I Do Not Accept", then we will not use cookies but you may have a deteriorated user experience. You can change your settings by clicking on the Settings link on the top right of the device.