=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: VOTER REGISTRATION MANAGER, Elections (Project Employee)
Salary: $74,431.76 - $81,875.04 YEAR
Location: Tarrant County, TX, TX, 76196-0105
Employer: Tarrant County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2025-07-13
Job Type: Project Employee - Exempt (#0024)
Job Number: 10421
Department: Elections Board
Opening Date: 07/14/2025
Closing Date: 8/6/2025 10:45 AM Central

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Manages, evaluates, coordinates, and directs the overall operations of the Voter Registration and GIS areas of the department. Interprets statutory requirements and develops policies and procedures for compliance.
Manages and directs the activities of the Assistant Voter Registration Supervisor and GIS Analyst and indirectly supervises other permanent and contract/temporary employees. Evaluates subordinates' performance, identifies strengths and weaknesses, and provides guidance and motivation. Makes decisions in personnel matters including hiring, disciplinary action, and resolution of employee disputes.
Assists in developing Elections Department budget and aids in managing purchases, payables, and receivables for State (Chapter 19) operating budget. Can direct the preparation of check requests, requisitions, receipts, and state vouchers. Audits and reconciles ledgers. Serves as backup to department's Bookkeeper.
Manages the daily digital imaging, boxing, storage, and destruction of voter registration records in accordance with state law.
Manages confidentiality program for voter registration records of judges, peace officers, and their spouses. Manages a separate voluntary program for confidentiality of voter registration data published on County website, which any voter can request.
Supervises bid procedures and documentation for the mass mailing of renewal voter registration certificates and confirmation notices including scheduling, proofs, NCOA process, printing and postage requirements, and coordinating with the IT Department, U.S. Postal Service, Voter Registration software vendor, and subsequently chosen printing/mailing vendor.
Manages Local Option liquor election process. Serves as main department contact for local option election questions, issues petitions, and manages petition verification process.
Manages the evaluation of provisional ballots following each election. Serves as final check of voter eligibility before a provisional ballot can be rejected from tabulation.
Manages Tarrant County data within the state voter registration system including setup of each election, managing user security, and data transfers.
Manages database files of specific information pertaining to voter registration and election records. Maintains other databases for records such as district table information. Develops and runs reports to produce CDs and reports for public information requests and jury lists using spreadsheet and database programs.
Manages Title 15 campaign finance filings for officeholders and candidates as prescribed in the Texas Election Code and Ethics Commission directives.
Manages, develops, and customizes the curriculum for online training system for Volunteer Deputy Registrars. Prepare status reports relating to course completion.
May represent department in Spanish language media interviews. May translate legal documents, ballot language, press releases, and other high-level, complex documents into Spanish.
Performs all other related duties as required.

Bachelor's degree or higher and at least Two (2) full-time years of voter registration work experience and two (2) full-time years of supervisory work experience required (experience can be concurrent). -OR-
Associate's degree and at least four (4) full-time years of voter registration work experience and two (2) full-time years of supervisory work experience required (experience can be concurrent). -OR-
High School diploma or GED and at least six (6) full-time years of voter registration work experience and two (2) full-time years of supervisory work experience required (experience can be concurrent). 
Effective oral and written communication, interpersonal, leadership, and management skills.
Proficient with keyboarding, word processing and/or spreadsheet software.
Must be able to work under pressure to meet deadlines.
Must have the ability to develop unique correspondence and/or detailed spreadsheets, follow and provide verbal and written instructions, have detailed knowledge of organization and department procedures, and exhibit good communication skills.
Ability to communicate in English and Spanish preferred.
NOTE: You must fill out the work history and education sections of application to show you have years of experience/education as required by hiring department or be disqualified.
If hired, must provide proof of educational attainment at new hire processing
 
Tarrant County will conduct background checks on new hires that will include a criminal background check related to convictions and deferred adjudication in the past seven years and may include financial history reports, motor vehicle records, employment records and educational attainment. A conviction or deferred adjudication is not an automatic bar to employment. Each case is considered individually.

While performing the duties of this position, the incumbent is regularly required to bend, carry, grasp/squeeze, keyboard, kneel, lift below the waist, lift to the side/twist, pull, push, reach, perform repetitive tasks, see color, see near, see far, sit, squat, stand, talk, use his/her hands, drive a vehicle, work alone and with others, and work overtime.

Tarrant County offers a full range of employee benefit programs for eligible employees, retirees, and their families. These programs include group health plans for medical, dental, and vision coverage; an Employee Assistance Program (EAP); life and long- term  disability insurance; and flexible spending accounts for health care and dependent care reimbursements. The County also provides retirement benefits. Full time employees participate in the Texas County & District Retirement System (TCDRS), and employees may also participate in a retirement savings program (Deferred Compensation). In addition to these "basic employee benefits" and retirement services, employees benefit from a variety of other programs including 13 paid holidays, a Wellness Program, and more.*Note: These benefits are for Tarrant County employees only. For benefit information regarding Community Supervision and Corrections Department (CSCD) employees, please contact Patrice Harrison at (817) 884-1227.  