=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Departmental Analyst 9-P11 - Campaign Finance Analyst
Salary: $25.85 - $40.51 HOUR
Location: Lansing, MI, MI, 48909
Employer: State of Michigan
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2025-06-25
Job Type: Permanent Full Time
Job Number: 2301-25-BOE055
Department: Department of State
Opening Date: 06/26/2025
Closing Date: 7/6/2025 11:59 PM Eastern
Bargaining Unit: NON-EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTED EMPLOYEE (NERE)

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===




POSITION DUTIES - These positions help provide the public with valuable information regarding who is funding campaigns for state offices including the legislature, executive branch, judges and political action committees. These analyst positions make sure candidates and donors adhere to the Michigan Campaign Finance Act and Michigan Election Law. The Analysts will support the Campaigns to address deficiencies and correct noncompliant filings, analyze reports for accuracy and completeness, and notify campaigns of errors, late filing fees and other enforcement actions.  These positions will assist in updating training materials and user manuals and providing training to the regulated community.

Position Description - Campaign Finance Analyst 9-P11 (Download PDF reader)
 

APPOINTMENT TYPE/BENEFITS - This position is Full-Time. Therefore, you would be eligible to participate in the benefits offered by the state.

MDOSJOBS

Education
Possession of a bachelor's degree in any major.

Experience 

Departmental Analyst 9
No specific type or amount is required.

Departmental Analyst 10
One year of professional experience.

Departmental Analyst P11
Two years of professional experience, including one year of experience equivalent to the intermediate (10) level in state service.

Alternative Education and Experience

Educational level typically acquired through completion of high school and the equivalent of at least two years of full-time
active-duty experience at or above the E-6 level in the uniformed services may be substituted for the education requirement.

Accommodations
If you require a reasonable accommodation to participate in the application or selection processes, please contact the ADA coordinator (Download PDF reader) for the agency that posted this position vacancy.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        DEPTALT - Do you possess one of the following?  

A bachelor's degree or higher in any major.  If so, you must attach a copy of your official college transcripts.

OR

A high school education and the equivalent of at least two years of full-time active-duty experience at or above the E-6 level in the uniformed services.
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Are you related to anyone currently working at the Department of State (Secretary of State)?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        If you answered "yes" to question #2, please list the name of each relative. If you answered "no" to question #2, please enter "none".
        
        
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Please list all previous names, to include name at birth, and any alias name(s) used. If you do not have any previous/alias names to list, please enter "none".
        
        
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have with research, data analysis, or compliance related work? Experience must be substantiated in your application materials.
        
        
                None
                Less than 1 year
                1 year - 3 years
                3 years - 5 years
                More than 5 years
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        if you have experience with research, data analysis, or compliance related work, briefly describe your experience. If you do not possess this experience, please enter "none".
        
        
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have working in an elections-related, regulatory, or compliance environment? Experience must be substantiated in your application materials.
        
        
                None
                Less than 1 year
                1 year - 3 years
                3 years - 5 years
                More than 5 years
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        If you have experience working in an elections-related, regulatory, or compliance environment, briefly describe your experience.  If you do not possess this experience, please enter "none".
        
        
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have interpreting laws, administrative rules, or policy to ensure compliance? Experience must be substantiated in your application materials.
        
        
                None
                Less than 1 year
                1 year - 3 years
                3 years - 5 years
                More than 5 years
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        if you have experience interpreting laws, administrative rules, or policies to ensure compliance, briefly describe your experience. If you do not possess this experience, please enter "none".
        
        
        
    


    
        

11

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have in campaign finance reporting or similar work? Experience must be substantiated in your application materials.
        
        
                None
                Less than 1 year
                1 year - 3 years
                3 years - 5 years
                More than 5 years
        
    


    
        

12

    

    
        If you have experience in campaign finance reporting or similar work, briefly describe your experience. If you do not possess this experience, please enter "none".
        
        
        
    


    
        

13

    

    
        Do you have experience creating and delivering training materials such as webinars, guides, or user manuals? Experience must be substantiated in your application materials.
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

14

    

    
        If you have experience creating and delivering training materials such as webinars, guides, or user manuals, briefly describe your experience. If you do not possess this experience, please enter "none".
        
        
        
    


    
        

15

    

    
        From the following options, please select your employment status.
        
        
                Currently employed at the Department of State (Secretary of State)
                Previously employed by the Department of State (Secretary of State)
                Currently employed at another State of Michigan agency
                Previously employed by another State of Michigan agency
                None of the above
        
    


    
        

16

    

    
        Did you remember to attach your resume, cover letter, and a copy of your official college transcripts?  Failure to do so may result in your application being screened out of the hiring process. 
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

17

    

    
        Please select from the options below: (Please note, actions that have been expunged, formal counseling, and layoff actions need not be reported.) Failure to answer this question honestly may result in being sanctioned from employment with MDOS. Please select all that apply.
        
        
                I have been dismissed within the last two years
                I have resigned in lieu of discipline or dismissal within the last two years
                I have been suspended without pay within the last two years
                I have received an unsatisfactory rating in the last two years
                I have received a written reprimand within the last two years
                I have signed a last chance agreement with MDOS within the last two years
                I certify that none of the above circumstances apply to me
        
    


    
        

18

    

    
        Due to the nature of this position, the Michigan Department of State conducts comprehensive background checks that will require the candidate to be subjected to, and not limited by, criminal history review, drug testing, and reference checks. Do you accept and comply to these background check requirements?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

19

    

    
        All listed supervisors/employers may be contacted for reference checks. If your NEOGOV application indicates that they cannot be contacted, please document the reason in the work experience box of the NEOGOV application, under the "reasons for leaving" box(es). You will then need to provide the names, phone numbers and relationship (i.e.. Former Team Lead) of two to three professionals below.

If you have indicated that all listed supervisors/employers may be contacted, please enter "none".
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        