The incumbent will serve as the Chief Legal Officer for the EAC and provides legal advice and counsel to the Executive Director on a wide variety of legal matters; provides advice to all of EAC's Federal Advisory Committees, including the Technical Guidelines Development Committee, EAC Board of Advisors, and EAC Standards Board. The General Counsel also serves as the Designated Agency Ethics Official (DAEO) and is responsible for agency ethics training, financial disclosure and reporting obligations, and communication with the U.S. Office of Government Ethics.
Major Duties
Ensures that the Commission meets all Federal, state, and local legal and regulatory requirements, which are administered by or effect the operation of the EAC; reviews all proposed policies and procedures to ensure compliance with Federal, state, and local laws and regulations; keeps key staff informed of changes in Federal, state, and local laws and regulations that may affect the operations of the EAC.
Prepares legal opinions; researches constitutions, statutes, rules, regulations and cases to form an opinion; drafts written opinions; communicates oral opinions.
Meets, consults and coordinates with high level Federal, state, and local officials, and attorneys, on matters with legal or policy implications; coordinates and/or consults with the Department of Justice and other Federal agencies regarding legal matters. Meets with entities, associations, advocacy groups and/or individuals to exchange information with them and promote an understanding of the Commission's scope of work, policies and practices, as well as necessary changes in those policies and practices.
Develops and drafts guidance, guidelines, rules and regulations to govern the Commission's operations and programs; reviews Federal Register publication notices for these and other documents; reviews and assesses comments made by members of the public, stakeholders, vendors and others on guidance, guidelines, policies, rules and regulations proposed by the Commission; reviews proposed and final guidance, guidelines, policies, rules and regulations for compliance with the law. Assures due process is maintained concerning parties interacting with EAC. Develops appropriate internal procedures to sustain fairness and equity among all interests.
Reviews and approves all statements of work, contracts, memoranda of understanding, cooperative agreements to assure that these actions and agreements comply with law and protect the interests of the Commission.
As a member of the Commission's senior staff, assists the organization with strategic planning; prepares and monitors the annual budget for the office of General Counsel; manages the office of General Counsel; makes staffing recommendations to the Executive Director; assigns and oversees work of three subordinate attorney/legal support positions including the Deputy General Counsel. Plans work activities based on short and long-term needs. Resolves problems, sets priorities, and allocates resources. Develops performance plans, evaluates employees, and recommends compensation for superior performance. Deals effectively with employee issues and promotes management-sponsored policies and goals. Assures the work environment is free of safety hazards and takes appropriate corrective action when needed. Maintains an awareness of evolving issues and supports training to assure employee competencies meet job demands. Utilizes computer oriented workload tracking and researching techniques.
Represents the EAC and its staff in their official capacities in all litigation, arbitration, mediation, and settlement negotiations; arranges for and manages representation by the United States Attorney, when appropriate; and when necessary, secures and manages outside legal services for the Commission.
Connects with the White House as a liaison for the Commission; reviews and comments on proposed legislation; provides counsel regarding responses to Congressional inquiries and requests; utilizes expertise in the development and drafting of all Congressional testimony; and serves as a point of contact for both Members of Congress and White House offices.
Candidates must meet all qualifications prior to the closing date of this announcement.
Qualifications
General Competencies
Interpersonal Effectiveness: Skill in responding appropriately to a diversity of groups and individuals in a variety of challenging situations. Demonstrated ability to be tactful and to treat others with respect. Skill in developing networks, achieving cooperation, and collaborating with others when appropriate, including parties outside of EAC.
Critical Thinking: Skill in purposeful, self-regulatory judgment that results in interpretation, analysis, and evaluation of all relevant considerations while remaining flexible, fair-minded in evaluation, prudent in making judgments, diligent in seeking relevant information, and persistent in seeking results.
Written and Oral Communication: Demonstrated ability to clearly, succinctly and convincingly express facts and ideas both in writing and orally. Skill in listening and appropriately responding to the ideas, points of view, or concerns of others. Skill in public speaking.
Organizational Skill: Demonstrated understanding of priorities, deadlines, administrative systems and resources needed to gather and synthesize information while balancing workload demands.
External Awareness: Skill in identifying and keeping abreast of legislation, policies and economic, political, and social trends that affect the EAC.
Technical Competencies
Professional knowledge of and ability to interpret and apply: Federal, State and local laws and regulations governing election administration. Graduation from and accredited law school in the United States and a valid and current law license in at least one State is required.
Thorough knowledge and understanding of the EAC mission, goals, and objectives, programs, and functions to identify significant issues requiring the attention of the Commissioners.
Comprehensive knowledge of the Help America Vote Act and the National Voter Registration Act, pertinent regulations, policies, procedures, precedents, and directives affecting election administration.
Expert knowledge in one or more functional areas of law (e.g., U.S. election law; information law and information sharing; and federal communications).
Leadership Competencies
Skill in leading staff to interact as a team, focused on cooperating with one another and with the entire EAC staff to accomplish team goals and initiatives.
Ability to plan, assign, and appraise work products to assure high levels of performance.
Skill in consensus building and conflict management to effectively resolve conflicts.
Knowledge of the tools available to facilitate managing the work and skill in applying that knowledge to such responsibilities as maintaining records, assuring adequate resources, supplies, and equipment to accomplish the work, identifying and implementing ways to improve effectiveness and efficiency, formulating budget requests, and similar managerial functions.
Knowledge of basic human resource management programs, rules, policies, and procedures to effectively carry out responsibilities such as interviewing and recommending selections, developing performance standards and appraising performance, identifying training needs and arranging for appropriate training for staff, resolving grievances and complaints, effectively managing disciplinary issues, and handling a variety of other human resource management responsibilities.
Education
Specialized Experience:
Candidates much possess a Juris Doctorate from an America Bar Association accredited law school.
Candidates must be a current member in good standing of a state, territory of the U.S. District of Columbia or Commonwealth of Puerto Rico Bar.
Candidates must have 3 years of experience in legal practice; of which one year of the experience may be met through the completion of a judicial clerkship (completed by time of hire).
Additional information
You must submit all required information by the closing date. If materials are not received, your application will be evaluated solely on the information available and you may not receive full consideration or may not be considered eligible. The materials you send with your application will not be returned.
Send only those materials needed to evaluate your application.
If you use public transportation, part of your transportation costs may be subsidized.
Failure to provide all of the required information as stated in this vacancy announcement may result in an ineligible rating or may affect the overall rating.
All applicants MUST submit applications via email: resumes@eac.gov.
You do not need to submit your application package through the USAJOBS process.
Your application package must be received by the closing date of the announcement and must include the following:
A resume;
For current or former federal employees, you must submit a copy of your last Notification of Personnel Action (SF50) showing your position, title, series, grade and eligibility; and
A copy of your most recent performance appraisal. If you do not have a recent performance appraisal, please explain why you do not have one.
Failure to provide all of the required information as stated in this vacancy announcement may result in an ineligible rating or may affect the overall rating.
All applicants MUST submit applications via email: resumes@eac.gov.
You do not need to submit your application package through the USAJOBS process.
Your application package must be received by the closing date of the announcement and must include the following:
A resume;
For current or former federal employees, you must submit a copy of your last Notification of Personnel Action (SF50) showing your position, title, series, grade and eligibility; and
A copy of your most recent performance appraisal. If you do not have a recent performance appraisal, please explain why you do not have one.