IT DIRECTOR III
Recruitment #19-004496-0002
| Department | SBE General Administration |
|---|---|
| Date Opened | 11/1/2019 1:42:00 PM |
| Filing Deadline | 11/15/2019 11:59:00 PM |
| Salary | $72,812.00 - $116,915.00/year |
| Employment Type |
Full-Time
|
| HR Analyst | Christina Lohr |
| Work Location |
Anne Arundel
|
GRADE
LOCATION OF POSITION
Board of Elections
151 West St. Suite 200
Annapolis, MD 21401
Main Purpose of Job
POSITION DUTIES
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS
Education: Bachelor's Degree from an accredited college or university in computer science, information system's, engineering, business, or any other related scientific or technical disciplines.several IT
Experience: At least 7 years of technical, financial, and governance/management and IT/enterprise experience. A minimum of 6 years of this experience should include managing information technology projects, managing several integrated IT systems, managing professional IT employees, and securing sensitive information.
Experience in Lieu of Education: At least 10 years of qualifying experience may substitute for minimum education requirements.
DESIRED OR PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS
Preference will be given to applicantsÂ who possess the following preferred qualification(s).Â Include clear and specific information on your application regardingÂ your qualifications.
- The ability to convey technical information to a non-technical audience.
- The ability to translate mission requirementsÂ and information problems into solutions employing current state of theÂ art information system equipment software.
- Experience in IT Risk Management.
- Experience with enterprise level IT Security Controls, and Cyber Security best practices.
- ExperienceÂ with software development, data, integrity, and project management.
- Experience with Disaster Recovery Plans, System Security Plans, Business ContinuityÂ Plans and other IT related policy documents.Â
SELECTION PROCESS
Applicants must meet all minimum (and selective) qualifications to be considered, and to appear on the list of people eligible for hire. Please read all requirements before applying.Â
Please make sure that you provide sufficient information on your application to show that you meet the qualifications for this recruitment. All information concerning your qualifications must be submitted by the closing date.Â We will not consider information submitted after this date.Â Successful candidates will be ranked as Best Qualified, Better Qualified, or Qualified and placed on theÂ eligible (employment) list for at least one year.
BENEFITS
FURTHER INSTRUCTIONS
As an equal opportunity employer, Maryland is committed to recruiting, retaining and promoting employees who are reflective of the Stateâs diversity. People with disabilities and bilingual candidates are encouraged to apply.Â We thank our Veterans for their service to our country. Â
The online application process is STRONGLY preferred.Â If you are unable to apply online, you may mail a paper application and supplemental questionnaire to:Â Â Â Â
Board of Elections
Attn: HR
151Â West Street Suite 200
Annapolis, MD 21401
If additional information is required, the preferred method is to upload. If you are unable to upload, please fax the requested informationÂ to, 410-974-5126.Â Only additional materialsÂ which are required will be accepted for this recruitment. All additional information must be received by the closing date and time.Â Â Â Â Â
For questions regarding this recruitment, please contact theÂ SBE Recruitment and Selection Division, at 410-269-2859.
If you are having difficulty with your user account or have general questions about the online application system, please contact the MD Department of Budget and Management, Recruitment and Examination Division, at 410-767-4850 orÂ Application.Help@maryland.gov.Â Â
Appropriate accommodations for individuals with disabilities are available upon request by calling: 410-269-2859 or MD TTY Relay Service, at 1-800-735-2258.