=== JOB DETAILS ===

Salary: $51,203.86 - $58,884.43 Annually
Location: Brighton, CO
Job Type: Regular Full-Time
Job Number: 04034
Department: County Clerk and Recorder
Division: Elections
Opening Date: 11/08/2019
Closing Date: 11/22/2019 4:30 PM Mountain
Our Mission: Safety, Security and Transparency.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

To coordinate and supervise assigned subprogram with the support and direction of the program manager. Such tasks include but are not limited to: warehouse operations, ballot intake, election night reporting, ballot design and layout, ballot sorter operations, ballot proofing and tabulation, ballot and equipment security, logic and accuracy testing, and post-election audit testing.  Impact and influence employees using leadership principles.

Maintain an organizational culture that maximizes individual potential, expands professional opportunities for our employees, and helps them contribute positively to the County and the community.
Assist the Ballot Processing Manager with strategic and operational leadership; establish short and long-term service area priorities, goals, and objectives; organize and direct special projects and work teams; identify and implement strategies to ensure continuous improvement, employee engagement, and customer service in all areas; and ensure that service area initiatives are in alignment with the mission, vision, and goals of the Clerk and Recorder.
Complete performance evaluations.
Works with program manager to develop processes and procedures for assigned area.
Election planning, polling place procurement, and equipment delivery. Supervision of voter service and polling center ADA compliance.
Creates and maintains training materials for assigned programs.
Serve as primary contact for various third-party vendors.
Implement policies, procedures, goals, objectives, and initiatives that support the County's innovative organizational culture.
Perform related duties and responsibilities as required.

Experience:
3 years of related experience, or any equivalent combination of training and experience which provides the required knowledge, skills and abilities.
Experience in elections administration and/or government preferred.
Additional experience in logistical project management and resource allocation strongly preferred.
Education and Training:
Bachelor's degree in business, communications, political science, or related field preferred. 
An equivalent combination of related education and experience may be substituted for the education and experience requirements above.
License or Certificate:
Ability to become deputized.
A valid driver's license and own transportation is required.
Background Check: Must pass a criminal background check.
More Qualifications for Success:
Special Requirements
Other: Must be registered to vote in Colorado
Essential duties require the following physical abilities and work environment:
Ability to stoop, stand, sit for extended periods, and reach overhead and push, pull or handle objects weighing 40 pounds or less.

Adams County and the 17th Judicial District Attorney's Office complies with Colorado’s Job Application Fairness Act (“JAFA”). JAFA prohibits employers from asking individuals to disclose their age, date of birth, or dates of school attendance or graduation on an initial employment application. However, additional application materials such as certifications and transcripts containing this information may be required for certain positions; if such additional materials are requested, applicants may redact information that identifies the applicant’s age, date of birth, or dates or attendance or graduation.

Weekly Hours - At least 40 hoursEmployees qualify for Health benefits (medical, dental, vision, Life/ADD, disability), the mandatory 9% Pension enrollment and the optional 457b deferred compensation package. They start accruals for Vacation and Sick. https://youtu.be/ILAvllPaGb4   


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        How many years of related experience do you possess?
        
        
                One Year
                Two Years
                Three Years
                None of the above
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        What level of education do you possess?
        
        
                High School Diploma/GED
                Associate's Degree
                Bachelor's Degree
                None of the above
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Do you possess any experience in elections administration and/or government? If so, please explain where you gained this experience.
        
        
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Are you registered to vote in Colorado?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Please describe any supervisory experience you have.
        
        
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Please describe your computer skills as it relates to this position.
        
        
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Please describe any elections experience you have.
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        