Voting & Elections
Information on Voting and Elections in the State of New Mexico.
Candidates & Campaigns
Information on how to become a candidate and about complying with campaign finance disclosure and reporting requirements.
Legislation, Lobbying & Legal Resources
Learn about Lobbying in our state. Find Legislative information to include Signed & Chaptered Bills and Legal Resources.
Business Services
Start a business, maintain a business or get general information on registered businesses in New Mexico.
Notary & Apostille
Become a notary, renew your notary commission, or obtain information about apostilles or certification of official documents.
Commercial Services
File UCC's, AG Liens, register a trademark or other commercial filings.
Safe at Home
New Mexico’s statewide address confidentiality program administered by the Secretary of State to assist victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking or similar types of crimes to receive mail using the Secretary of State’s address as a substitute for their own.
Cybersecurity
Learn about how we protect your voter and business information. You might also find a tip or two that will help you secure your information as well.
About New Mexico
Learn about New Mexico Government, History, State Symbols, State Songs and other important information about our state.
Unofficial Election Results
Results will become available after 7 PM on Election Day, November 2, 2021 and will be posted as they are received from the county offices.
Election Results Homepage
Election Day Voter Hotline
Toll Free: 1-800-477-3632
Santa Fe: 505-827-3600 Option 2
The Election Day Voter Hotline is available on Election Day, November 2, from 7:00 AM to 7:00 PM to assist voters with questions or concerns.
Voter Resources
Online voter resources include:
About the office
Job Openings at the Secretary of State’s Office
Currently, there are no job openings. Please check back later.
Upcoming Statewide Elections
2026 Municipal Officer Election: Tuesday, March 3, 2026
2026 Primary Election: Tuesday, June 2, 2026
2026 General Election: Tuesday, November 3, 2026