=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Director
Salary: $25.75 - $25.75 HOUR
Location: Twin Falls County, ID, ID, 83303
Employer: Twin Falls County
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2025-05-12
Job Type: Full-time
Job Number: 202500048
Department: Elections
Opening Date: 05/13/2025
Closing Date: 5/26/2025 10:00 PM Mountain

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Apply ONLINE at www.twinfallscounty.org

Testing is required for this position. We must receive your test results by the posting deadline for you to be considered for this position. Testing is conducted by the Idaho Department of Labor Magic Valley Office. Their hours are Monday –Friday from 8 a.m. – 5 p.m. To receive the testing links; call 208-735-2500, email magicvalleymail@labor.idaho.gov , or visit the Department of Labor Magic Valley Office at 601 Pole Line Rd E in Twin Falls.

Please note: If you took tests through the Department of Labor for a company other than Twin Falls County, your tests scores are not automatically sent to us and you will need to mail, email, or fax them to our office before the posting deadline to be considered for this position.
 

Tests Required:  TF Data Checking, Typing Contact Data and General Typing
 
Tests will be kept on file for six (6) months.  When you retest, we will use your most recent test score for each position for which you apply.

CLASSIFICATION SUMMARY
Performs a variety of administrative and logistical duties in administering the County’s elections. The Election Director ensures compliance with Federal, State and local requirements; sets up ballots and prepares test decks; communicates with and prepares candidate filing packets; processes campaign financial disclosures; secures polling places; reviews and adjusts voter list per statutory requirements; and interfaces with political parties, candidates and the general public. Employees in this class use independent judgment in applying existing policies and procedures to complete assignments, involving knowledge of multiple procedures and program guidelines to make decisions. Employees respond to non-routine inquiries and explain department services, policies, procedures and rationale for decisions to candidates and customers. Employees typically utilize a variety of computer operations and/or specialized software to complete daily assignments.  The Election Director reports directly to the County Clerk and Chief Deputy Clerk.  The principal duties of this class are performed in a general office environment and polling places.

ESSENTIAL DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES (illustrative only and may vary by assignment)

Follow Idaho Code to meet deadlines on election calendar;
Setup ballots and entry of candidates and questions in the election software;
Prepares ballot test decks and results for testing;
Tests all voting equipment and electronic poll books and printers;
Prepares candidate filing packets;
Receives and reviews campaign financial disclosures;
Works with taxing districts in conducting their elections;
Reviews information received from the Secretary of State, Department of Corrections and Bureau of Vital Statistics and makes adjustments to the voter list;
Updates election records using data entry;
Registers voters using specific election software; updates voter registration in the voter database daily as needed; compiles and distributes reports for the public and for other county offices; and assists in maintaining address summary database;
Secures and schedules polling places; checks polling places on election day and resolves problems that may occur;
Oversees contacting, selection and assignment of poll workers to polling places; conducts pre- and post-election preparation, including absentee voting; and configures electronic poll books, including posting election voting history, challenges, etc.;
Prepares training material for poll workers and conducts poll worker training;
Operate the counting machine and assist office staff to ensure election night runs smoothly;
Responds to Commissioners’, elected officials’, County employees’ and citizens’ questions and comments in a courteous and timely manner;
Performs time management and scheduling functions, meets deadlines, and sets project priorities;
Communicates and coordinates regularly with appropriate co-workers to maximize the effectiveness and efficiency of interdepartmental operations and activities;
Publishes notices of elections and sample ballots;
Prepares canvass and certificates of election;
Trains county personnel for early voting;
Works with County Clerk to redistrict precinct boundaries;
Maintains streets and districts in voter registration software;
Maintains strict confidentiality in all cases;
Assists other department and County employees as needed or requested;
Performs all work duties and activities in accordance with County policies, procedures, and safety practices.
SECONDARY DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
Provides backup to other staff as needed;
Processes incoming and outgoing mail;
Performs other duties as assigned. 

CLASSIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:
The requirements listed below are representative of the minimum knowledge, skill, and/or ability required for an individual to satisfactorily perform each essential duty satisfactorily and be successful in the position.
 
Knowledge of:

Federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to elections and reporting;
Current office practices and procedures, including data entry;
Record keeping and filing practices and procedures;
Operation of a personal computer and job-related software;
Customer service procedures and techniques.
Skill and Ability to:
Coordinate people, processes and systems to meet local and federal election requirements;
Speak clearly and communicate accurate information to others;
Use English to communicate effectively with others;
Proficiently operate computers, software programs, such as Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint, or similar office software to create documents and other materials, maintain information, and generate reports;
Listen carefully to, understand, and effectively communicate through oral, written, and interpersonal communication channels;
Follow verbal and written instructions;
Work independently and exercise initiative, with general guidance and supervision;
Use good judgment to make sound and reasonable decisions and problem-solving skills to respond to customer service needs in accordance with laws, ordinances, regulations and established policies;
Maintain a professional demeanor at all times;
Maintain confidentiality;
Perform a wide variety of duties and responsibilities with accuracy and speed under the pressure of time-sensitive deadlines;
Demonstrate integrity and ingenuity in the performance of assigned tasks and solving problems;
Perform all duties in accordance with County policies and procedures with regard for personal safety and that of other employees and the public.
ACCEPTABLE EXPERIENCE AND TRAINING:
High school diploma or GED;
Two years' experience working with election processes; or
An equivalent combination of education and experience that provides the required skills, knowledge and abilities to successfully perform the essential functions of the position may be considered.
Must successfully pass background investigation relevant to the position and remain in good standing for the duration of employment with the County. 
PHYSICAL DEMANDS & WORK ENVIRONMENT: 
The physical demands described here are representative of those that must be met by an employee to successfully perform the essential functions of this classification.  Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions.  

While performing the duties of this classification, the employee is frequently required to stand, walk, sit, stoop, kneel, bend, use hands to keyboard or type, handle materials, or manipulate tools used in performing the essential functions of the classification, and reach with hands and arms. The employee must (occasionally or frequently) lift and/or move up to 25 pounds and, infrequently, up to 50 pounds. Specific vision abilities required by this classification include close vision, distance vision, color vision, peripheral vision, depth perception and ability to adjust focus. Sufficient clarity of speech and hearing abilities required by this classification includes those which permit the employee to discern verbal instructions and communicate effectively in person and by telephone. While performing the duties of this classification, the employee works in an office setting where the noise level in the work environment is usually moderate.

Twin Falls County offers a highly competitive benefits package to full-time employees including holiday pay, paid vacation, paid personal days and paid sick leave. We offer medical, dental, and vision insurance, as well as short-term disability benefits, life insurance, and a PEHP plan.  We are on the PERSI retirement plan and also offer a Deferred Compensation (voluntary retirement) plan. For specific information regarding Twin Falls County's benefits, visit the Benefits section of our web page.