=== JOB DETAILS ===

Salary: $7,295.58 - $9,119.42 Monthly
Location: Castle Rock, CO
Job Type: Full-Time Regular
Job Number: 2020-01154
Department: Clerk & Recorder
Opening Date: 01/02/2020
Closing Date: 2/6/2020 5:00 PM Mountain
FLSA: Exempt

BENEFITS:
  • 10 ½ paid holidays each year + a floating holiday
  • 8 hours of paid vacation per month
  • 8 hours of paid sick time per month
  • Medical insurance employees can choose from three plan options:   Aetna WHN CO Front Range Select,  Aetna Open Access Select (HMO) or Aetna WHN CO Front Range Choice POSII HDHP/HSA.
  • Life insurance 1.5 times employee salary at no cost to employee
  • Short-term and long-term disability at no cost to employee
  • Mandatory retirement – defined contribution of either 6% or 8% - matched at 8%
  • Annual performance reviews with potential for an increase

Additionally, we offer dental, vision, accident/critical illness insurance, tuition reimbursement, and employee training.  Part-time employees receive a pro-rated benefits package.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Directs, administers, and coordinates the Core Services of the Elections Division of the Clerk and Recorder's Office, including voter registration, conducting elections, voter education and outreach, and precincting and boundaries.  Performs complex administrative and supervisory work in a variety of management functions including personnel management, statutory compliance, and execution of the integrated processes to conduct all primary, general, coordinated, and other special elections within the county. Responsible for strategic planning, policy/procedure development and implementation, and continuous improvement.

This position is posted as open until filled, review of applications will begin immediately and continue until a suitable candidate is selected.

(The following examples are illustrative only and are not intended to be all inclusive.)

 Directs, administers, coordinates the Core Services and functions of the Elections Divisions of the Clerk and Recorder's Office.
Exercises direct and indirect supervision of employees ensuring adherence to established policies, procedures, and standards; Trains, coaches, and evaluates staff.
Ensures compliance with Colorado Revised Statutes, applicable election laws, Secretary of State Election Rules, and Douglas County Policy.
Develops, updates, and implements policies, regulations, procedures, best practices, and strategies to attain organizational goals.
Administers or makes recommendations for routine personnel matters affecting subordinates including recruiting, interviewing, hiring, training, assigning work, scheduling work hours, granting leave, appraising performance, disciplining, and submitting such records and reports as required by County policies and procedures.
Ensures proper training and oath-taking for all certified election officials, temporary support staff, and election judges.
Manages Division budget planning and implementation; monitors operational and personnel requirements; works with Clerk and Recorder's Accounting Division as well as County Finance to adhere to annual budget planning model and adoption.
Attends meetings and participates on County, local, and state committees related to elections functions to ensure County and department needs are considered and met; advises leadership staff of activities and actions; maintains an awareness of activities in other counties and other states pertaining to elections programs and policies.
Coordinates with internal and external communications partners to prepare and execute elections strategic communications plan and deliverables.
Provide information as appropriate to keep media and community informed of legislation, statutory changes, policy modifications, process or procedure changes, and best practices to staff, county stakeholders, representatives of business and industry, media, party representatives, professional associations, special districts, municipalities, and clients.
Acts as Subject Matter Expert and consultant for staff, Elected Official, peers and/or clients on election issues and Core Services.
Performs special projects as assigned.
Prepares and directs the preparation of clear, accurate and informative statistical, financial and other related reports containing election findings, conclusions, and recommendations; presents information as needed to various audiences.
Maintains current certifications, ongoing training, and professional development in the field and according to Colorado Revised Statutes and Secretary of State Election Rules for self and all election staff to ensure the integrity of all Douglas County elections.
Assumes responsibility for historical preservation and for maintenance, storage and/or destruction of elections records for which the County Clerk is responsible.
Participates in state statute and rule-making development and review with Secretary of State and Colorado County Clerks Association committees at the discretion of the Clerk and Recorder. Advocates for legislative and policy positions of the Elected Official.
Communicates with voters, political candidates, political committees, elected officials, the media, etc. regarding registration and elections issues and activities, including statutes governing the various election processes; carefully investigates complaints regarding election activities.
Consequence of error may result in candidates or public programs being incorrectly installed due to election errors, program deficit, budgetary overrun, reduction of services, or public perception of mismanagement.
Lives out the Vision, Mission, and Core Values of the Clerk and Recorder's Office, maintaining a supportive environment conducive to teamwork
Performs other duties as assigned.
 
SUPERVISION RECEIVED: 
Works independently with minimal supervision and understands when situations should be advanced to a higher level of authority.

SUPERVISORY RESPONSIBILITIES: 
Supervises, coaches and mentors professional and support staff in a productive and positive manner.
Manages and monitors work performance of staff including evaluating program/work objectives and effectiveness, monitoring employee alignment with organizational goals, realigning work and staffing assignments for the division.
Approves the hiring, disciplinary, and pay decisions made by subordinate supervisors.
 
 INDEPENDENT JUDGMENT: 
The employee normally performs the duty assignment according to his or her own judgment, requesting supervisory assistance when necessary.
Projects and daily work are managed with little oversight; however special assignments and significant work products may require partnerships with stakeholders.
Operations impacted by legislative changes are evaluated with oversight from the Elected Official.


EDUCATION and/or EXPERIENCE: 

Bachelor's Degree in Political Science, Public Administration, Public Policy, Business Administration, Management, or related field; Degree in Law applicable.
Minimum four years of management experience, preferably in a government or regulatory setting.
Experience related to the conduct of elections (not campaigns), with Colorado election experience preferred. Knowledge of voting systems, ballot counting systems, and voter registration databases preferred.
A combination of education and experience may be accepted. 

KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS AND ABILITIES:

Knowledge: 
Advanced knowledge of relevant laws, regulations, policies, standards, and Colorado Secretary of State Rules.
Awareness of best practices and procedures within the industry, an office setting, and the government sector.
Principles, practices, and objectives as related to elections in an Elected Official's Office.
Department and County rules, regulations, policies, procedures, and standard operation procedures.
Knowledge of Human Resource principles, County and Division policies and procedures.
Budget management and resource allocation according to governmental standards and procedures.
Advanced knowledge of Microsoft Office products.
 Skills: 
Supervisory principles, procedures, and methods including selection, training, discipline, and evaluation.
Maintain confidentiality of information consistent with applicable federal, state and county laws, rules, and regulations.
Strong leadership and interpersonal skills to effectively communicate and achieve results with staff, other government entities, vendors, and the public.
Establish and maintain effective working relationships with other County employees, representatives of other agencies and organizations, and members of the community.
Interactions at this level are typically concerned with providing communications at higher levels of organizational operations and may utilize activities such as evaluating customer satisfaction, developing cooperative associations, and allocating resources to improve work operations, work quality, overall achievement of organizational goals and objectives, and customer satisfaction.
 Abilities: 
Ability to establish, maintain and foster positive and harmonious working relationships and build effective teams and to manage performance within a coaching culture.
Able to objectively listen and evaluate others' comments. Able to evaluate new information and determine how it may affect the division, the Clerk's Office as a whole, and the County.
Analyze and interpret federal and state laws, rules, and regulations pertaining to elections.
Provide professional customer service to clients and public.
Act as an official representative of the County in a professional manner with local and state agencies and organizations.
Maintain confidentiality of information consistent with applicable federal, state and county laws, rules, and regulations.
Organize material and present information clearly and concisely in verbal and written form.
 
CERTIFICATIONS, LICENSES, & REGISTRATIONS:
Possession of, or ability to obtain within 90 days of hire, a valid Colorado Driver's License.
Must be a registered voter in the State of Colorado upon hire.
State certification as an Elections Professional required to administer initial election from date of hire, or within a year, whichever comes first.
Recommended but not required: National certification as an Elections Professional.

The ability to successfully complete pre-employment screening including but not limited to: reference checks, criminal background, motor vehicle record check and drug screen is required.


WORK ENVIRONMENT:

Duties are performed primarily in an office environment; however, travel to other office locations is required.
May be required to lift office supplies weighing up to 25 lbs.
Verbal and auditory capacity enabling interpersonal communication, in person, in meetings, and overuse of communication devices such as telephones.
Visual capacity enabling constant use of computer or other work-related equipment.
This position requires the incumbent to remain available via mobile cellular device/email access during and after normally scheduled business hours to ensure business continuity.

In the event of an emergency/disaster in or near the County, all County employees are expected to make every effort to be available to assist the County Manager, Elected/Appointed Officials and Department Directors to ensure the continued operation of any and all necessary County functions.  This may mean being available to perform additional duties and hours beyond what is normally required.  In the event that an exempt employee does work more than 40 hours a week in support of County operations during an emergency, such employee may receive overtime or other appropriate wage compensation in accordance with existing County policies or at the discretion of the County.