ADMINISTRATOR II
Recruitment #21-002587-0069
| Department | SBE General Administration |
|---|---|
| Date Opened | 9/24/2021 4:20:00 PM |
| Filing Deadline | 10/8/2021 11:59:00 PM |
| Salary | $50,971.00 - $81,596.00/year |
| Employment Type |
Full-Time
|
| HR Analyst | Shermaine Malcolm |
| Work Location |
Anne Arundel
|
GRADE
LOCATION OF POSITION
Main Purpose of Job
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS
Education: A Bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university.
Experience: Four years of experience in administrative staff or professional work.
Notes:
1. Additional experience in administrative staff or professional work may be substituted on a year-for-year basis for the required education.
2. Additional graduate level education at an accredited college or university may be substituted at the rate of 30 semester credit hours on a year-for-year basis for the required general experience.
3. Candidates may substitute U.S. Armed Forces military service experience as a commissioned officer involving staff work related to the administration of rules, regulations, policy, procedures and processes, or overseeing or coordinating unit operations or functioning as a staff assistant to a higher ranking commissioned officer on a year-for-year basis for the required education and experience.
DESIRED OR PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS
Preference will be given to applicantsÂ who possess the following preferred qualification(s).Â Include clear and specific information on your application regardingÂ your qualifications.
1. Experience training election judges.
2. Experience administering an election, preferably in Maryland.
3. Experience in public speaking and facilitating meetings with stakeholders.
4. Ability to work in a fast-paced, deadline driven environment.
5. Experience supervising employees or volunteers.
6. Customer service experience and experience responding to inquiries and concerns of the public.
7. Detail oriented, good organizational skills, and strong verbal and writing skills.
LICENSES, REGISTRATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS
SELECTION PROCESS
EXAMINATION PROCESS
The assessment may consist of a rating of your education, training, and experience related to the requirements of the position.Â It is important that you provide complete and accurate information on your application.Â Please report all experience and education that is related to this position.
BENEFITS
FURTHER INSTRUCTIONS
Online applications are highly recommended. However, if you are unable to apply online, the paper application (and supplemental questionnaire) may be submitted to SBE's HR Division at 151 West St., Suite 200, Annapolis, MD 21401. Resumes will not be accepted in lieu of completing the online or paper application. Paper application materials must be received by 5 pm, close of business, on the closing date for the recruitment.Â No postmarks will be accepted. If additional information is required, the preferred method is to upload.Â If you are unable to upload, please email the requested information to Chris Lohr at Chris.Lohr@maryland.gov.Â Only additional materials that are required will be accepted for this recruitment.Â
For questions regarding this recruitment, please contact SBE's HR Division at 410-269-2866.
Appropriate accommodations for individuals with disabilities are available upon request by calling MD TTY Relay Service 1-800-735-2258.
We thank our Veterans for their service to our country.
People with disabilities and bilingual candidates are encouraged to apply.
As an equal opportunity employer, Maryland is committed to recruitment, retaining and promoting employees who are reflective of the State's diversity.