=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Management Analyst III
Salary: $72,190.56 - $120,316.98 YEAR
Location: FAIRFAX (EJ32), VA, VA, 22035
Employer: Fairfax County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2021-09-24
Job Type: FT Salary W BN
Job Number: 21-02073
Department: Office of Elections
Opening Date: 09/25/2021
Closing Date: 10/8/2021 11:59 PM Eastern
Pay Grade: S27
Posting Type: Open to General Public

BENEFITS:
  • Medical/Vision/Dental Insurance Coverage
  • Group Term Life Insurance
  • Long Term Disability
  • LiveWell Program
  • Flexible Spending Programs
  • Paid Leave (annual, sick, parental, volunteer activity, and more!)
  • Paid Holidays
  • Contributory Retirement Plan
  • Deferred Compensation
  • Employee Assistance Program
  • Employees' Child Care Center
  • Commuter Benefit Program
  • Continuous Learning Opportunities

NOTE:  Fairfax County Government is a qualifying employer under the Public Service Loan Forgiveness program. For more information about the PSLF program: https://studentaid.gov/manage-loans/forgiveness-cancellation/public-service
For additional details please visit the County's benefits webpage.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Serves as Administrative Division Director in a fast paced, high performing elections and voter registration agency. Independently performs a wide range of professional-level work related to personnel, financial management, budget, planning, physical security, and physical resource management. Plans and implements all phases of administrative support to election activities to ensure compliance with federal, state and county laws and procedures including fiscal controls, purchasing, budgeting, facilities planning and management, recruiting and hiring, payroll, personnel rules and practices, and training and staffing. This position works under the direction of the General Registrar and specific duties include but are not limited to:



Directs and supervises professional and seasonal employees who perform fiscal and human resources duties in support of the agency, to include developing and implementing written policies and procedures for fiscal and personnel activities.
Develops and manages agency budget and purchasing in coordination with the General Registrar.
Participates in strategic planning and budget development; researches and evaluates new technology and equipment, and serves as project manager for the acquisition and implementation of new systems or equipment.
Develops and administers internal space plan and physical security plan for the agency, to include acquiring, reserving and managing work and warehouse spaces, regulating access to offices, files, keys, databases, warehouse and other sensitive locations and materials. Communicates security initiatives to staff.
Coordinates related activities with other agency departments, state board of elections, county agencies, federal agencies, and vendors. 
Manages, directs and supervises professional staff. 

Note: The assigned functional areas of the position are finance, human resources, business administration, and election administration.

(The illustrative duties listed in this specification are representative of the class but are not an all-inclusive list. A complete list of position duties and unique physical requirements can be found in the position description.) 


Independently designs, develops, and coordinates ongoing department programs and special projects;
Performs a wide range of professional-level management work for more than one broad administrative function including complex analysis and diverse project management in a lead capacity;
Coordinates and manages the work of administrative, para-professional, and/or professional-level staff in the day-to-day activities of selected projects. 
Plans, organizes, and coordinates changes to the policies, procedures, or processes related to multiple administrative functions (financial, procurement, budget, human resources, contract or grants administration, information technology systems, etc.);
Plans and conducts or oversees studies or research activities to ensure program quality, determine unmet needs or ensure efficacy of existing programs;
Provides guidance, recommendations, and advice to departmental managers;
Serves on committees, task forces, and management teams to evaluate the effectiveness and efficiency of existing management/administrative systems;
Writes, edits, and finalizes reports and presentations and presents findings and recommendations to department senior managers.

(The knowledge, skills and abilities listed in this specification are representative of the class but are not an all-inclusive list). 


Considerable knowledge of mission, goals, and objectives of the organizational unit, program, or activities to which incumbent is assigned;
Considerable knowledge of the principles, practices, and techniques relating to the functional area of business operation (e.g. personnel, budgeting and financial management, contract administration and management);
Knowledge of the principles, practices and techniques governing management, organization, operations and programmatic services;
Ability to identify possible solutions for solving business problems;
Ability to evaluate proposals and solutions in terms of benefits, costs, and overall impact on the project, program, or organization;
Ability to make oral presentations to department management, other departments, or the public;
Ability to write detailed, accurate reports, grants, or solicitations for pertinent areas of administration;
Ability to use word processing and presentation software to prepare documents, and to use spreadsheet and statistical analysis software packages to store, manipulate, analyze and present data;
Ability to supervise and train staff.

MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:
Any combination of education, experience, and training equivalent to the following:
(Click on the aforementioned link to learn how Fairfax County interprets equivalencies for "Any combination, experience, and training equivalent to")
Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university with a bachelor's degree in field related to the assigned functional area; Plus four years of professional work experience with in the functional area.

PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS:

Professional experience in a public or non-profit sector setting.
Demonstrated election administration experience or work in an election office.
Knowledge of and experience with budgeting, to include forecasting, revenue analysis, financial auditing; and purchasing.
Experience in performing or overseeing human resources functions. 
Experience managing a diverse and professional staff.
Ability and aptitude to problem solve and troubleshoot problems.
Ability to evaluate, formulate and implement fiscal and other agency policies and procedures. 
Ability to innovate and manage change.
Proficiency with Microsoft Office Suite, i.e., Word, Excel, and PowerPoint.

NECESSARY SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS:
The appointee to the position must satisfactorily complete a criminal background check.
This position may be required to work overtime and weekends periodically.
This position is classified as essential personnel. The appointee is required to report to work during times of inclement weather or other emergencies.

PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS:
Work is generally sedentary, performed in a normal office environment. Ability to lift, move, and assemble files and documents. All duties performed with or without reasonable accommodations.

SELECTION PROCEDURE:
Panel interview and may include a practical exercise.

Fairfax County Government prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, pregnancy, childbirth or related medical conditions, age, marital status, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetics, political affiliation, or military status in the recruitment, selection, and hiring of its workforce.  

Reasonable accommodations are available to persons with disabilities during application and/or interview processes per the Americans with Disabilities Act. Contact 703-324-4900 for assistance. TTY 703-222-7314. EEO/AA/TTY.   