=== JOB DETAILS ===

Salary: $61,665.36 - $74,954.52 Annually
Location: Martinez, CA
Job Type: Permanent Full-Time
Job Number: EAHA-2016A
Department: Clerk - Recorder
Opening Date: 06/13/2016
Closing Date: 6/24/2016 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Exempt
Bargaining Unit: ZA

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

The Clerk-Recorder of Contra Costa County is recruiting qualified individuals to fill up to Three (3) vacant Clerk-Recorder Services Supervisor positions. These management positions will be assigned to support the units in the Clerk-Recorder Division of the Clerk-Recorder-Elections Department, located in downtown Martinez, CA.  Clerk-Recorder Services Supervisors are responsible for planning, organizing, monitoring, supervising, evaluating, and reviewing the work of technical, clerical, and specialist staff in the major functional units of the Clerk-Recorder Division, which include the County Clerk, Recording, and Imaging/Indexing units.
 
The ideal candidate will possess knowledge and understanding of County Clerk and Recording processes, including the relationship between each of the units in the Division, as well as working knowledge of County ordinances, California Codes and regulations, Federal and State laws regarding County Clerk and Recorder functions. Strong supervision, management, and administrative skills and experience are required as the incumbent will have primary responsibility for day-to-day direction and coordination of County Clerk and Recorder related activities.  Excellent interpersonal skills and a positive customer service approach are required; the incumbent will conduct marriage ceremonies in accordance with State and Federal law, interface with staff on all levels, as well as county officials, other government agencies and the public. 
 
The employment list established as a result of this examination may remain in effect for six (6) months.
 

Depending on area of assignment, duties may include, but are not limited to the following:
 

Directs, plans, and organizes one or more unit's operations for the Clerk-Recorder Division
Provides training and direct supervision to line staff, including Clerk-Recorder Services Specialists, Clerk-Recorder Services Technicians, technical and clerical staff, temporary and volunteer workers
Conducts performance evaluations of division employees, temporary, and volunteer workers
Uses computer-based programs and equipment to perform a variety of complex functions, including (but not limited to) analysis, publications and/or reports, online data research, correspondence, form creation and processing
Answers questions from the public regarding policies, procedures and addresses the most complex division issues or difficult customers, including laws and regulations governing County Clerk and Recorder processes
Maintains division related statistics and prepares reports, as directed
Coordinates work schedules and office coverage with other division units to ensure that critical events are properly carried out and accomplished within the established timeframes
Develops and updates forms and procedures to meet current laws, state and federal regulations and department's policies and procedures
Manages the Automated Phone Systems to ensure that all incoming calls are appropriately handled by division staff
Conducts civil marriage ceremonies in accordance with State and Federal law
Supervises the front counter, telephone, and customer service personnel and their related activities
Supervises the County Clerk and Recorder customer service programs, including the Customer Service desk
Supervises general County Clerk programs and filings, including: Fictitious Business Name, notary commissions, Process Servers registration, marriage license application process and the performance of civil marriage ceremonies in accordance with State and Federal law
Supervises the division's vital record programs (birth, death, marriage)
Supervises the division's document recording programs, including title company recording, electronic recording, and "record and return" front counter recording
Supervises the division's document imaging and indexing programs
Supervises the division's training programs, assures sufficient training and cross-training occurs to cover division

License Required: Possession of a valid California motor vehicle operator's license.  Out of state valid motor vehicle operator's license will be accepted during the application process.
 
Education:  Possession of a high school diploma, G.E.D. equivalency or high school proficiency certificate.
 
Experience:  Four (4) years of full-time or its equivalent clerk and recording experience in a public office performing Clerk and Recorder functions; at least eighteen (18) months of which were in a lead or supervisory capacity working with departmental staff, the public, and interdepartmental personnel.
 
Substitution:  Possession of an Associate of Arts degree from an accredited institution with major coursework in public administration, business, political science or a closely related field may be substituted for two (2) years of the required experience.  No substitution is permitted for the required experience in a lead or supervisory capacity.

All applicants are encouraged to review the detailed job description available at www.cccounty.us/hr and apply only if they clearly meet the minimum qualifications.
 

 

Application Filing:  All applicants, including County employees, are to apply on-line at www.cccounty.us/hr, and submit the required information as indicated on the job announcement by the final filing date listed above. All applicants must clearly demonstrate that they meet the minimum qualifications provided on the job announcement. Resumes may not be substituted for the official County application.  Paper, faxed, or late applications WILL NOT be accepted. To view the typical tasks, knowledge, skills, and abilities associated with this position, please visit our website to see the detailed job description. Please see additional locations to apply on the reverse side of this announcement.
 
Application Evaluation:Depending on the number of applications received, an Application Evaluation Board may be convened to evaluate and select the best-qualified candidates for invitation to the next phase of the examination.
 
Oral Interview:  An oral interview will be conducted by a Qualifications Appraisal Board in Martinez, CA. The Board will evaluate candidates in job-related areas. Candidates must receive a rating of at least 70 from a majority of the Board members to be ranked on the employment list. (Weighted 100%)
 
As part of the application process, an applicant may be required to complete a Conviction History form. Please note that the Conviction History Form should only be submitted when requested.
 
The Human Resources Department may change the examination steps noted above in accordance with the Personnel Management Regulations and accepted selection practices.



To find more information on Benefits offered by Contra Costa County, please go to https://www.contracosta.ca.gov/1343/Employee-Benefits


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        The supplemental questionnaire is part of the application process for the Clerk-Recorder Services Supervisor . The purpose of the questionnaire is to provide applicants the opportunity to elaborate on their qualifications. Your responses to the questionnaire will be used to evaluate your relevant experience to determine which applicants will be invited to participate in a competitive oral examination. 

Please answer the questions below and submit your responses with your on-line application. Although you may submit a resume to further describe your qualifications or additional information, such items may not be substituted in lieu of the supplemental questionnaire. An incomplete supplemental questionnaire will result in disqualification. Do not answer any question by indicating "see attached resume". 

An application submitted without the supplemental questionnaire is considered incomplete and will therefore be disqualified.  Please read the Job Announcement carefully for specific filing instructions, supplemental questions, and final filing dates. All documents must be received at the time of application.
        
        
                N/A
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Experience: Describe the applicable experience in questions #3 and #4.  For each question, please identify:

- Employer's Names, Official Work Title,
- Years and/or months of experience,
- Percentage (%) of time spent supporting this  function,
- Scope of responsibilities
        
        
                N/A
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Please, describe, in detail, your experience performing Clerk and Recording functions in a Public Office  (i.e. processing birth certificates, death certificates, marriage licenses, environmental filings, fictitious business name filings, real property documents, lien recording, etc.)
        
        
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Please, describe, in detail, your experience performing supervisory or lead functions working with departmental staff, the public and interdepartmental personnel.
        
        
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        I possess an Associates of Arts degree from an accredited institution with major coursework in public administration, business, political science or a closely related field to substitute for two (2) years of the required experience.  No substitution is permitted for the required experience in a lead or supervisory capacity. 
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        I understand that Clerk-Recorder Services Supervisors are required to conduct marriage ceremonies in accordance with State and Federal Law.
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        I certify that I meet the announced requirements for this examination and understand that I will be eliminated at any stage in such examination if it develops that, in fact I do not meet them. I further certify that all statements made in this supplemental questionnaire and the application is true and I agree and understand that misstatements or omissions of material facts will cause forfeiture of my rights to employment with Contra Costa County.
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        