=== JOB DETAILS ===

Salary: $53,842.92 - $65,446.44 Annually
Location: Martinez, CA
Job Type: Permanent Full-Time
Job Number: EATA-2016A
Department: Clerk - Recorder
Opening Date: 06/13/2016
Closing Date: 6/24/2016 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Non-Exempt
Bargaining Unit: 3R

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

The Contra Costa County Clerk-Recorder Division located in downtown Martinez is recruiting for Clerk-Recorder Services Specialists.  These technical positions are assigned to one of the specialized units of the Clerk-Recorder Division: Recording, Clerk Services, Imaging/Indexing and Archive/Warehouse Services.  Clerk-Recorder Services Specialists perform the most complex and technical support activities associated with the duties and responsibilities of the Clerk-Recorder Division, plan, coordinate and direct/lead the day-to-day work activities of subordinate staff and ensure that proper procedures are followed while performing those activities.  The ideal candidates will possess knowledge and understanding of the County Clerk and Recorder functions. Working knowledge of the principles and practices of work organization and the ability to apply them in planning, coordinating and completing work activities to meet specific deadlines, is a must. 
 
Candidates must be able to operate personal computers and peripheral equipment, have some knowledge of spreadsheet applications, word processing and database management programs; codes and laws relating to County Clerk and Recorder functions, as well as the ability to independently apply them.  Excellent interpersonal skills are required, as the incumbent will interface with staff at all levels, as well as county officials and members of the public. 
 
Note: The Clerk-Recorder Services Specialist is a specialized classification requiring knowledge of the California Codes, regulations and laws related to County Clerk and Recorder functions; general clerical experience will not be considered.
 
The employment list established as a result of this examination may remain in effect for one (1) year.

Depending on area of assignment, duties may include, but are not limited to the following:

All Units

Provides lead direction to line staff, including Clerk-Recorder Services Technicians, clerical and temporary staff
Assists in the performance evaluation of division employees, temporary and volunteer workers
Uses computer-based programs and equipment to perform a variety of complex functions, including reports, form creation and processing, envelopes, instruction sheets, processing customer requests, on-line database research, data entry, cashiering, document indexing, correspondence, quality and accuracy verification
Answers questions from the public regarding the most complex division issues, including laws and regulations governing clerk and recorder processes
Conducts studies on division matters and prepares professional reports
Performs the most complex and technical functions of the unit
Identifies requirements and schedules adequate time to prepare necessary documents and supplies to meet deadlines according to appropriate codes and department's procedures
Designs, implements and reviews procedures to increase efficiency and accuracy of division processes
Assures staff is adequately trained and procedures are up-to-date, according to current laws and codes
Designs, presents and oversees training programs to Clerk-Recorder Division employees, volunteer workers, and members of the public
Oversees file maintenance as well as materials and records related to the division
May attend meetings, trainings and/or seminars related to functional unit
Monitors and strictly controls access to confidential information
Assures security policies and procedures are strictly followed at all times for the facility as well as documents and/or bank note security paper
Provides positive customer service, in person, on the phone or electronically
Assures subordinate staff provide positive customer service
Oversees cashiering of transactions, fee collection and cash reconciliation, according to division policies and procedures
Assists other functional units in day-to-day activities, as needed or as directed


In addition to the above:

Recording Services
Examines the most complex maps, technical real property or other documents presented for recording
Determines sufficiency for recording, completeness, accuracy and proper execution based on applicable California Codes and division procedures
Rejects documents that do not meet recording requirements
Corresponds with document presenters, specifying reason for recording rejection
Oversees validation of the general index for accuracy and completeness
Oversees the entering and maintenance data in the proprietary database system
Perform front counter recording duties, including assisting the public with the most complex and technical recordings


Clerk-Services
Oversees the examination of documents presented for filing for completeness, accuracy and proper execution
Determines sufficiency of the most complicated and technical documents for filing based on applicable California Codes and division policies and procedures
Oversees the entering and maintenance of data in the proprietary database system
Provides guidance and direction to Clerk-Recorder Technicians
Coordinates the customer service information counter operations
May perform wedding ceremonies, according to division policies and procedures
Oversees vital records copy processes, according to applicable California Codes and division policies and procedures
Oversees issuance of marriage licenses, according to applicable California Code requirements and division policies and procedures
Oversees issuance of oaths and witnessing of signatures by Deputy Clerks, according to applicable California Codes and division policies and procedures
Oversees Professional Registration processes handled by the County Clerk
Coordinates proper security processes for ordering, receipt and storage of registered supplies (vital record security bank note paper).
Oversees schedule adherence and timely destruction of records
Oversees office equipment routine maintenance and coordination of service/repair calls


Imaging/Indexing and Archive/Warehouse Support
Oversees data entry, index verification and database maintenance of Clerk-Recorder Division records
Coordinates redaction of documents to meet California State Social Security Truncation Program requirements
Oversees imaging and indexing processes; including preparation, data and image input into database system
Assures image and information quality control is according to and meets California Codes, division policies and procedures
Maintains Clerk-Recorder archive and warehouse inventory
Oversees access to archive facility
Oversees schedule adherence and timely destruction of records
Assures sufficient supply inventory is available for division operations
Oversees office equipment routine maintenance and coordination of service/repair calls
Oversees production and maintenance of Real Property records, indices or other document archives
Oversees preparation of customer requests for electronic records. Assures completion according to California Codes, division policies and procedures

License Required: Possession of a valid California Motor Vehicle Operator's License.  Out of State valid Motor Vehicle Operator's License will be accepted during the application process.
 
Education:  Possession of a high school diploma, G.E.D. equivalency or high school proficiency certificate.
 
Experience:  Two (2) years of full-time clerk and recording experience in a public office performing Clerk and Recorder functions.  At least one (1) year of the required experience, must have included lead or supervisory duties.
 

 

Application Filing:  All applicants, including County employees, are to apply on-line at www.cccounty.us/hr, and submit the required information as indicated on the job announcement by the final filing date listed above. All applicants must clearly demonstrate that they meet the minimum qualifications provided on the job announcement. Resumes may not be substituted for the official County application.  Paper, faxed, or late applications WILL NOT be accepted. To view the typical tasks, knowledge, skills, and abilities associated with this position, please visit our website to see the detailed job description. Please see additional locations to apply on the reverse side of this announcement.
 
Application Evaluation:Depending on the number of applications received, an Application Evaluation Board may be convened to evaluate and select the best-qualified candidates for invitation to the next phase of the examination.
 
Oral Interview:  An oral interview will be conducted by a Qualifications Appraisal Board in Martinez, CA. The Board will evaluate candidates in job-related areas. Candidates must receive a rating of at least 70 from a majority of the Board members to be ranked on the employment list. (Weighted 100%)

As part of the application and selection process, an applicant may be required to complete a Conviction History Form.  Please note that the Conviction History Form should only be submitted when requested.

The Human Resources Department may change the examination steps noted above in accordance with the Personnel Management Regulations and accepted selection practices.



To find more information on Benefits offered by Contra Costa County, please go to https://www.contracosta.ca.gov/1343/Employee-Benefits


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        The supplemental questionnaire is part of the application process for the  Clerk-Recorder Services Specialist. The purpose of the questionnaire is to provide applicants the opportunity to elaborate on their qualifications. Your responses to the questionnaire will be used to evaluate your relevant experience to determine which applicants will be invited to participate in a competitive oral examination. 

Please answer the questions below and submit your responses with your on-line application. Although you may submit a resume to further describe your qualifications or additional information, such items may not be substituted in lieu of the supplemental questionnaire. An incomplete supplemental questionnaire will result in disqualification. Do not answer any question by indicating "see attached resume". 

An application submitted without the supplemental questionnaire is considered incomplete and will therefore be disqualified.  Please read the Job Announcement carefully for specific filing instructions, supplemental questions, and final filing dates. All documents must be received at the time of application.
        
        
                N/A
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Do you possess a valid California Motor Vehicle Operator's License or out of State valid Motor Vehicle Operator's License?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Do you possess a high school diploma, G.E.D equivalency, or high school proficiency certificate?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        EXPERIENCE:  Please select all areas in which you have prior Clerk and Recording experience.
        
        
                Recorded and filed legal documents [in a public office], such as birth, death or marriage certificates, real property records
                Recorded, filed and processed fictitious business name applications, notary bonds, environmental documents and other documents required by State, Federal laws to be filled with a County Clerk-Recorder agency
                Reviewed and accepted applications in a County Clerk and Recorder agency
                Issued marriage licenses and recorded marriage certificates
                Performed marriage ceremonies
                Examined Real Property documents for Recording
                Checked the Grantor/Grantee index of all recorded documents
                Recorded, filed and archived any of the above documents
                Imaging and indexing of legal documents
                I do not have any of the above experience
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Describe the experience indicated above in question #3, including the following information:

•	Employer's Name, official work title
•	Employment dates and number of hours worked per function
•	Percentage (%) of time spent supporting this function
•	Scope of responsibilities
(If you do not have any applicable experience, please indicate "N/A".)
        
        
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        I have at least one (1) year of Lead or Supervisory experience related to Clerk and Recording functions.
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Please describe your experience leading/directing or supervising the work of others
        
        
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Per Personnel Management Regulation (PMR) Rule 718, this eligible list may be used for alternative certification purposes to fill other vacancies such as Clerk-Recorder Services Technician.  If you are hired permanently on an alternate certification, your name will be removed from the Clerk-Recorder Services Specialist eligible list. Would you like to be referred on alternate certifications?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        I certify that I meet the announced requirements for this examination and understand that I will be eliminated at any stage in such examination if it develops that, in fact I do not meet them. I further certify that all statements made in this supplemental questionnaire and the application are true and I agree and understand that misstatements or omissions of material facts will cause forfeiture of my rights to employment with Contra Costa County.
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        