Under general policy direction from and at the will of the Mayor, the Commissioner of the Elections is responsible for municipal, state, and federal elections within the City of Boston. This position also oversees the annual census of residents aged 17 and older. The Commissioner of the Elections serves as chair of the Board of Election Commissioners, which ensures compliance with election laws and the equitable delivery of services. As a public and senior official responsible for a key government function, the Commissioner will embody character and impartiality as an election administrator.
The Commissioner is responsible for managing, directing, and integrating the functions, programs, and activities of the Elections Commission. The Commissioner communicates effectively to senior City management, community partners, regulatory authorities, and other department stakeholders to ensure City elections are accessible, fair, and administered effectively in accordance with all applicable laws.
The Elections Commissioner is responsible for managing the 30+ full-time employees of the Election Department, part-time seasonal employees, and approximately 2,000 part-time poll workers. The Commissioner will work with staff to document policies, practices, and procedures. The Commissioner will practice continuous improvement related to the complex operations of the Department.
Boston residency required
Registered voter in Boston required
Statutory Requirements for the Position:
Applicant for Commissioner of the Elections Department must be a registered voter in the city of Boston and have been a member of the Democratic Party for at least two years immediately prior to appointment. The Commissioner of the Elections Department is a member of the Boston Election Commission. The Boston Election Commission consists of four members of whom two shall be members of the Democratic Party and two shall be members of the Republican party. Each member must be a registered voter in the city of Boston and a member of their respective political party for at least two years immediately preceding their appointment. M.G.L. c. 51, § 16A; M.G.L. c. 4 § 12. The vacant position to be filled was previously held by a Democrat.
Terms:
Union/Salary Plan/Grade: Non-Union/CDH
Hours per week: 35
Salary: $145,000