Elections are the foundation of democracy, and democracy depends on elections that are broadly trusted. VotingWorks is a non-partisan non-profit building technology that powers elections everyone can trust.
We use open-source software, modern product engineering, and advanced security to build:
Our auditing system is used by 12 states, including Georgia, Michigan, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Virginia, Texas, Nevada, and Washington. Our voting system is deployed in 2 states, Mississippi and New Hampshire. Most notably, we are the first new voting system in New Hampshire in more than 30 years.
We are building voting technology. We believe in voting machines that can be trusted by the public, by election officials, and by security experts. We also believe in supporting robust and transparent post-election audits, to provide confidence in election results. If you’re like us, you’ve been thinking about the myriad problems and rough edges of our democracy for a while. We’ve decided that talking about it isn’t enough - we must do something. If you feel the same way, we hope you’ll consider joining our team.
We work as a small, tight-knit team. We’re a flat organization when it comes to ideas and input, and we believe in good management, even as a small organization, so that every VotingWorks team member gets regular feedback, guidance, and an opportunity for personal growth. We strive to be both confident in the skills and knowledge we each bring and humble in our interactions with each other and other stakeholders in the election space.
VotingWorks currently supports risk-limiting and post-election audits in 12 states with our software, Arlo. Support varies greatly from state to state and is a combination of general risk-limiting audit education, software training, and support of both during the conduct of audits. Risk-limiting audits vary by state and are constantly evolving, requiring updates to the software.
The Arlo/RLA Customer Success Manager is responsible for the strategic oversight and successful delivery of services for Arlo, our post-election audit product. This role will optimize and maintain the systems, tools, and processes for managing auditing projects and support. They act as the primary liaison for Product and Engineering alignment for customer success.
To begin, your responsibilities will include:
The ideal candidate for this position will have experience with risk-limiting audit concepts and election administration. A solid understanding of ballot tabulation, voting equipment, and ballot storage is preferred. The ability to manage multiple projects and work under pressure, specifically in critical audit support times, is crucial. While not required, a strong understanding of statistics is helpful.
You may not have done this exact job before, but you will work closely with the Head of Customer Success and the Customer Success Operations Manager to support your success in this role.
We’re a mostly distributed organization, with team members working from home in nine different states. For many of our roles, you can live anywhere you want. For some of our roles, we need you in specific geographies. If there’s a geographical requirement, it’s never “just to be in the same room as the rest of the team,'' it’s for very clear reasons like customer need or working on physical hardware together.
This position is remote. Travel to customer locations and conferences will be required.
We offer a flexible work schedule and we're on board with schedule flexibility: many team members have kids, pets, family members they care for, extensive hobbies, and other personal commitments that don’t always conform to a 9-5 schedule. We get that, and we think we’re a better organization if we adapt to that. We work hard, we just don’t work hard on a strict schedule. With flexibility comes responsibility: you should be comfortable with significant autonomous work.
We’re a non-profit, so we compensate in cash and benefits exclusively. We won’t pay you as much as a big for-profit, but we’ll still pay you a very fair salary and competitive benefits. Compensation is commensurate with your skills and experience. The compensation range for this position is $96,000 - $160,000 depending on experience and location.
We never discriminate on the basis of sex, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, race, ethnicity, background, ability/disability or really anything that isn’t about your skills.
We strive to go beyond that: we want to build a diverse organization that truly represents the people of the United States of America. We especially want to encourage women and members of under-represented groups to apply. You’ll always be judged on your skills and contributions, and we know that a more diverse team in all dimensions is a better team.