Election Operations Team Lead
Springfield, IL, US, 62704
Agency: Board of Elections
Closing Date/Time: May 19th, 2026
Anticipated Starting Salary: $7,500 - $9,167 per month
Full Range: $7,500-$11,667 per month
County: Sangamon
Number of Vacancies: 1
FLSA Status: Exempt
The SBE is a non-code agency.
All applicants who want to be considered for this position MUST apply electronically through the illinois.jobs2web.com website. State of Illinois employees should click the link near the top left to apply through the SuccessFactors employee career portal.
Applications submitted via email or any paper manner (mail, fax, hand delivery) will not be considered.
As a State of Illinois employee, you receive a comprehensive benefits package including:
• Competitive Group Insurance benefits including health, life, dental and vision plans
• Flexible work schedules (when available and dependent upon position)
• 10 -25 days of paid vacation time annually (10 days for first year of state employment)
• 12 days of paid sick time annually which carryover year to year
• 3 paid personal business days per year
• 13 paid holidays per year
• 12 weeks of paid parental leave
• Pension plan through the State Employees Retirement System
• Deferred Compensation Program – voluntary supplemental retirement plan
• Optional pre-tax programs -Medical Care Assistance Plan (MCAP) & Dependent Care Assistant Plan (DCAP)
• Tuition Reimbursement Program and Federal Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program eligibility
For more information regarding State of Illinois Benefits follow this link: https://www2.illinois.gov/cms/benefits/Pages/default.aspx
Work Hours: 8:00 - 4:30 PM Monday - Friday
Work Location: 2329 S. MacArthur Blvd, Springfield IL 62704
Agency Contact: dmartinez@elections.il.gov
Posting Group: Leadership and Management
****A RESUME IS REQUIRED FOR THIS JOB POSTING****
Please attach a DETAILED Resume/Curriculum Vitae (CV), a copy of your transcripts or diploma for all degrees earned, and a copy of any applicable professional licensures to the MY DOCUMENTS section of your application.
Why Work for Illinois?
Working with the State of Illinois is a testament to the values of compassion, equity, and dedication that define our state. Whether you’re helping to improve schools, protect our natural resources, or support families in need, you’re part of something bigger—something that touches the lives of every person who calls Illinois home.
No matter what state career you’re looking for, we offer jobs that fit your life and your schedule—flexible jobs that provide the gold standard of benefits. Our employees can take advantage of various avenues to advance their careers and realize their dreams. Our top-tier benefits and great retirement packages can help you build a rewarding career and lasting future with the State of Illinois.
Functional Statement
Subject to administrative direction, the Election Operations Team Lead (EOTL) acts as a subject matter expert and will be responsible for implementing and managing day-to-day operational processes and systems. The EOTL will strive to ensure a high level of efficiency and accuracy in Divisional processes through review and supervision of daily activities. Executes directives and coordinates the activities of personnel engaged in implementing and executing division procedures and policies.
Essential Function 1
Responsible for supervision and day-to-day managerial oversight and mentoring of the election specialists in the division, serves as the lead in the operation of the Division of Election Operations activities and programs; makes independent decisions on inquiries and procedures necessary for the responsibility of the division; disseminates election law to various local election authorities; advises staff from other divisions on implementing changes in procedure, policy, and legal requirements; communicates horizontally and vertically to inform staff of trends and changes in election administration.
Essential Function 2
Oversees highly specialized functions in the Division of Election Operations activities, programs and applications including but not limited to; setup of elections in EIS, candidate petition filing, withdrawal of nominating petitions, petition objection filing, and certification of ballots, petition record exams, and record retention.
Essential Function 3
Provides general and in-depth non-legal interpretations of election laws pertaining to elections; advises local election authorities regarding implementation/revisions of procedures resulting from changes in election laws/rules and regulations; assists in the establishment and maintaining effective positive relationships with election authorities, private, and governmental agencies, civic organizations, and the general public.
Essential Function 4
Coordinates with the other leads and the election project manager on intersecting subject matter and projects. Assists with the development of planning prior to the start of projects; reviews and makes recommendations on division annual budgets. Researches and recommends proposed legislative changes to the Illinois Election Code and aids in drafting of new legislation and rules.
Essential Function 5
Confers with the Division Director regarding the integration and coordination of Division activities and programs to improve total effectiveness of the Division and its administrative programs and reviews performance standards of subordinate personnel. Assists with preparation of training programs and materials for agency staff.
Essential Function 6
Performs other duties as required or assigned which are reasonably within the scope of the duties enumerated above.
Minimum Qualifications 1
Requires skill, mental development, and prior experience equivalent to four years of college, as well as progressively responsible experience in a public or business organization.
Minimum Qualifications 2
Requires ability to plan, direct and supervise staff and resources of the Division.
Minimum Qualifications 3
Requires thorough knowledge of the Illinois Election Code, State and local election procedures, and functions of local jurisdiction registration and tabulation equipment.
Minimum Qualifications 4
Requires the ability to interact and give advice to local election authorities and vendors of election software/equipment.
The State Board of Elections welcomes all and promotes workplace diversity. It is our individual traits, character, and experiences that make each of us special and unique. It is only when we bring that individualism together and work as a diverse team that we thrive. There is no place for discrimination based on race, religion, culture, sexual identity or orientation, age, or disability at the State Board of Elections.
APPLICATION INSTRUCTIONS
Use the “Apply” button at the top right or bottom right of this posting to begin the application process.
If you are not already signed in, you will be prompted to do so.
State employees should sign in to the career portal for State of Illinois employees – a link is available at the top left of the Illinois.jobs2web.com homepage in the blue ribbon.
Non-State employees should log in on the using the “View Profile” link in the top right of the Illinois.jobs2web.com homepage in the blue ribbon. If you have never before signed in, you will be prompted to create an account.
If you have questions about how to apply, please see the following resources:
State employees: Log in to the career portal for State employees and review the Internal Candidate Application Job Aid
Non-State employees: on Illinois.jobs2web.com – click “Application Procedures” in the footer of every page of the website.
Nearest Major Market: Springfield