=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Election Supplies Coordinator (Administrative Assistant IV)
Salary: $48,617.09 - $81,028.48 YEAR
Location: FAIRFAX (EJ32), VA, VA, 22035
Employer: Fairfax County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2024-12-13
Job Type: FT Hourly W BN
Job Number: 24-02745
Department: Office of Elections
Opening Date: 12/14/2024
Closing Date: 12/20/2024 11:59 PM Eastern
Pay Grade: S17
Posting Type: Open to General Public

BENEFITS:
  • Medical/Vision/Dental Insurance Coverage
  • Group Term Life Insurance
  • Long Term Disability
  • LiveWell Program
  • Flexible Spending Programs
  • Paid Leave (annual, sick, parental, volunteer activity, and more!)
  • Paid Holidays
  • Contributory Retirement Plan
  • Deferred Compensation
  • Employee Assistance Program
  • Employees' Child Care Center
  • Commuter Benefit Program
  • Continuous Learning Opportunities

NOTE:  Fairfax County Government is a qualifying employer under the Public Service Loan Forgiveness program. For more information about the PSLF program: https://studentaid.gov/manage-loans/forgiveness-cancellation/public-service
For additional details please visit the County's benefits webpage.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

This job opportunity is being re-announced. Applicants who previously applied for this job do not need to re-apply.

This position oversees the preparation, organization, packing, and distribution of election supplies that ensure smooth voting operations throughout Fairfax County, VA. As the largest election jurisdiction in Virginia and one of the 30 largest in the United States, Fairfax County operates 16 early voting sites and 264 election day polling places.

Supervises a team of four to eight seasonal staff members. Requires detailed preparation of election supplies, including ordering, organizing, counting, and packing forms, signs, and other related items to meet distribution requirements for each early voting and election day polling place. Collaborates closely with Election Manager, Voting Equipment & Logistics Manager, and other staff within Election Administration division.

This opportunity is perfect for an individual who is organized and detail-oriented, with some flexibility to adjust to changing timelines when necessary. Supply preparation and distribution activities are conducted at both our main office in Fairfax, VA, and our voting equipment warehouse in Springfield, VA. Selected candidate must be able to work at and travel between both locations.

Job responsibilities:

Prepare and manage the distribution of election materials.
Supervise and direct a team of four to eight seasonal employees.
Order supplies from vendors and maintain inventory levels.
Develop timelines and track supplies in election databases.
Design specialized forms and signs to support election operations.
Coordinate with county print shop to print all required forms and signs on schedule each election.
Use mail merges to customize forms and materials for each polling place.
Oversee the assembly and packing of supply kits for each precinct.
Prepare emergency supply kits for contingency scenarios.
Coordinate post-election supply recovery and ensure the return of all critical items.
Repair and recycle returned supplies as needed.
Create comprehensive supply lists and maintain chain-of-custody records for supplies.
Utilize technology to streamline processes.
Review and refine internal processes to recommend improvements for efficiency, accuracy, and fiscal responsibility.

As a member of the Office of Elections staff, participates in other activities related to election administration, voter registration, and voter outreach on an as-needed basis. A flexible schedule is required shortly before, during, and immediately after election day. Must be able to work some evenings and weekends near each election. Work-from-home may be available for up to 2 days per week during non-election periods, but all work is in-person during the 60 days before each election. There are two major elections most years, with three major elections in presidential years.

Note: The selected applicant’s starting salary will not typically exceed the midpoint of the advertised salary range. Promotional rules apply for current Fairfax County Government and Fairfax County Public Schools employees.

The assigned functional areas of the position are general administration, supplies management, election operations, election administration, and/or public administration.

MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:
Any combination of education, experience and training equivalent to high school graduation and three years of experience providing administrative support in the assigned functional area(s). 

CERTIFICATES AND LICENSES REQUIRED:
Must be a registered voter in the state of Virginia or ability to become one within 30 days of employment.

NECESSARY SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS:
The appointee to this position will be required to complete a criminal background check to the satisfaction of the employer. 

PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS:

Experience with supply logistics (planning, ordering, distribution, tracking, and recovery)
Experience in an elections office and with the elections process
Strong organizational and coordination skills
Proficient Microsoft Office skills to use mail merges, develop reports, and maintain spreadsheets
Proficient technical skills to maintain supply data in election databases
Ability to manage time-sensitive tasks
Ability to delegate, coordinate, and prioritize tasks
Ability to work well under pressure and adapt to changing timelines
Ability to work overtime during each election season 

PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS:
Work is generally sedentary. Duties require ability to lift, move, and assemble files and documents up to 35 lbs. Must be able to operate a computer, perform accurate, high volume data entry; visual acuity to read data and manipulate data on a computer monitor. Ability to communicate in person and on the phone. Occasional travel possible. Position also requires ability to work occasional to significant overtime hours under at various points throughout the year. All duties performed with or without reasonable accommodations.

SELECTION PROCEDURE:
Panel interview and may include exercise.

The population of Fairfax County is very diverse where 38.7% of residents speak a language other than English at home (Spanish, Asian/Pacific Islander, Indo-European, and others) and we encourage candidates bilingual in English and a foreign language to apply to this opportunity.

Fairfax County Government prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, pregnancy, childbirth or related medical conditions, age, marital status, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetics, political affiliation, or military status in the recruitment, selection, and hiring of its workforce.  
 
Reasonable accommodations are available to persons with disabilities during application and/or interview processes per the Americans with Disabilities Act. Contact 703-324-4900 for assistance. TTY 703-222-7314. DHREmployment@fairfaxcounty.gov. EEO/AA/TTY.

#LI-LD1