=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Voting Equipment &amp; Logistics Assistant Manager (Administrative Assistant V)
Salary: $53,265.06 - $88,775.02 YEAR
Location: FAIRFAX (EJ32), VA, VA, 22035
Employer: Fairfax County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2024-12-13
Job Type: FT Hourly W BN
Job Number: 24-02877
Department: Office of Elections
Opening Date: 12/14/2024
Closing Date: 12/27/2024 11:59 PM Eastern
Pay Grade: S19
Posting Type: Open to General Public

BENEFITS:
  • Medical/Vision/Dental Insurance Coverage
  • Group Term Life Insurance
  • Long Term Disability
  • LiveWell Program
  • Flexible Spending Programs
  • Paid Leave (annual, sick, parental, volunteer activity, and more!)
  • Paid Holidays
  • Contributory Retirement Plan
  • Deferred Compensation
  • Employee Assistance Program
  • Employees' Child Care Center
  • Commuter Benefit Program
  • Continuous Learning Opportunities

NOTE:  Fairfax County Government is a qualifying employer under the Public Service Loan Forgiveness program. For more information about the PSLF program: https://studentaid.gov/manage-loans/forgiveness-cancellation/public-service
For additional details please visit the County's benefits webpage.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Serves as the assistant manager for all voting equipment in Fairfax County, the largest voting jurisdiction in Virginia and one of the 30 largest voting jurisdictions in the United States. Under the supervision of the Voting Equipment & Logistics Manager, plays a critical role in pre-election equipment testing and many logistical operations.

Manages a team of more than 50 voting equipment technicians and oversees the testing and deployment of more than 1,400 pieces of voting equipment used at 280 early voting and election day polling places.

Fairfax County will upgrade to a new voting equipment system in early 2025 after ten years of using the current system. This position will be essential in facilitating this transition by developing new processes, training technicians, and preparing poll workers to use the new system.

Job responsibilities include:

Works regularly at main office in Fairfax, VA and voting equipment warehouse in Springfield, VA, with the ability to travel between these locations.
Supervises more than 50 voting equipment technicians (rovers) in programming, testing, and repairing voting equipment.
Leads comprehensive pre-election logic and accuracy testing for over 1,400 pieces of voting equipment, including ballot scanners, ballot marking devices, pollbooks, and ballot-on-demand systems.
Manages warehouse operations, including security and inventory of voting equipment.
Uses Airtable database software to track voting equipment inventory, testing, repairs, and chain of custody.
Develops and maintains strong chain of custody practices and security documentation for all voting equipment as it travels between voting equipment warehouse, polling places, distribution depots, and other locations.
Utilizes GPS, RFID, and related software to track the chain of custody of voting equipment.
Regularly communicates with voting system and ballot printing vendors for equipment orders and service calls.
Develops comprehensive plans for scheduling delivery and return of voting equipment from all 280 polling places.
Develops procedures to efficiently handle election night logistics and recover unreturned items.
Supports voting equipment during the 45-day early voting period at 16 early voting sites.
Serves as a lead coordinator for the Tech & Emergency Support incident command center on election day, ensuring swift and effective responses to emergencies and technical issues.
Prepares essential forms, signs, general supplies, and other materials.
Responds to voter inquiries related to voting equipment and the general security of election infrastructure.
Conducts statutorily required risk-limiting audits of voting equipment annually or as mandated by law.
Maintains an in-depth understanding of voting system systems and election-specific technology.

As a member of the Office of Elections staff, participates in other activities related to election administration and voter registration on an as-needed basis. A flexible schedule is required before, during, and immediately after election day. Must be able to work regularly beginning at 7:00 AM during voting equipment testing periods. Must be able to work evenings and weekends immediately before and during each election. Work-from-home may be available for up to 2 days per week during non-election periods, but all work is in-person during the 60 days before each election. There are two major elections most years, with three major elections in presidential years.

Note: The selected applicant’s starting salary will not typically exceed the midpoint of the advertised compensation range. Promotional rules apply for current Fairfax County Government and Fairfax County Public Schools employees.

The assigned functional areas of the position are general administrative support, election operations, public administration, warehouse management, and/or logistics.

MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:
Any combination of education, experience and training equivalent to high school graduation and four years of experience providing administrative support in the assigned functional area(s). 

CERTIFICATES AND LICENSES REQUIRED:

Valid driver's license
Must be a registered voter in the state of Virginia or ability to become one within 30 days of employment

NECESSARY SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS:
The appointee to this position will be required to complete a criminal background check and driving record check to the satisfaction of the employer.

Additional Work Schedule Requirements: During peak election periods, the position requires ability to work weekends and extensive overtime.

PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS:
Experience in an election office and with the election process
Experience managing voting equipment or working in a voting equipment warehouse
Experience as an election officer (poll worker) at a polling place
Experience supervising and managing temporary staff or poll workers
Experience coordinating deliveries to polling places or similar task
Excellent organizational and coordination skills
Intermediate proficiency in Microsoft Office (Word, Excel) to develop reports and spreadsheets
Ability to develop strategic and contingency plans

PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS:
Some office work is required and is generally sedentary; however, the position requires one to have the ability to assemble and repair electronic voting equipment, lift and carry equipment up to 50 pounds, walk stand, stoop, and kneel in a warehouse work environment.  Visual acuity to read and manipulate data on computer monitor, ability to communicate in person and on the phone and also includes time at community and individual meetings.  Will need mobility and ability to carry items between 280 early voting and election day polling sites and between the main office, warehouse and courthouse. All duties performed with or without reasonable accommodations.

SELECTION PROCEDURE:
Panel Interview and may include a practical exercise.

The population of Fairfax County is very diverse where 38.7% of residents speak a language other than English at home (Spanish, Asian/Pacific Islander, Indo-European, and others) and we encourage candidates bilingual in English and a foreign language to apply to this opportunity.

Fairfax County Government prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, pregnancy, childbirth or related medical conditions, age, marital status, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetics, political affiliation, or military status in the recruitment, selection, and hiring of its workforce.  
 
Reasonable accommodations are available to persons with disabilities during application and/or interview processes per the Americans with Disabilities Act. Contact 703-324-4900 for assistance. TTY 703-222-7314. DHREmployment@fairfaxcounty.gov. EEO/AA/TTY.

#LI-LD1