Employee resources
Welcome to the Department of Human Resources (DHR) Employee Resources page! King County employees will find useful links below.
Employee benefits, payroll, and retirement information
Learn more about the comprehensive benefits and services King County provides to eligible employees, retirees, and their dependents.
Balanced You
Inspired by employees, Balanced You equips you to live healthy and safe, know and use your benefits, and find balance in life and work.
Compensation classification
Compensation and Classification Services is responsible for administering and continuously enhancing the compensation and classification program. We also serve as a consultative resource for King County departments and offices on job design and compensation strategies.
Disability services
King County’s Disability Services is available to coordinate workplace accommodations for King County government job applicants and King County government employees with medical conditions or disabilities.
Employee Assistance Program and Making Life Easier
These 2 programs help our employees and their families to be healthy and safe.
Employee Discount Program
Information for businesses who would like to offer benefits to King County employees. Information for where employees can find available discounts on the intranet.
Employee Giving Program
The Employee Giving Program (EGP) is the workplace giving program for employees of King County government. It was established in 1988 to create an easy and cost-effective way for employees to support nonprofit organizations.
Layoff support resources
Resources to help King County employees who are facing layoff.
Policies
Find King County Human Resources policies on personnel, attendance, emergency management, equity and opportunities, hiring, pay, and other workplace topics.
Safety at work
Information and resources to keep King County employees safe on the job.
Taking leave
Several types of leave are available to eligible King County employees. Consult with your supervisor or your agency Human Resources representative to confirm what types of leaves apply to you and what forms and documentation may be necessary to process your request for leave.
Workers' compensation
Information about workers' compensation claim services for employees in need.
Workforce Development
Professional development resources for King County employees and candidates.