=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Administrative Specialist II (Language Services) - Temporary
Salary: $22.57 - $28.75 HOUR
Location: WA 98057-2906, WA, WA, 98104
Employer: King County
Employment Type: TEMPORARY
Date Posted: 2021-05-05
Job Type: Temporary
Job Number: 2021RL13414
Department: KCE - King County Elections
Division: Election Services
Opening Date: 05/05/2021
Closing Date: 6/3/2021 12:00 AM Pacific
FLSA: Non-Exempt
Bargaining Unit: F1A : L117-Admin

BENEFITS:
  • Medical, dental, and vision coverage: King County pays 100% of the premiums for eligible employees and family members
  • Life and disability insurance: employees are provided basic coverage and given the opportunity to purchase additional insurance for both the employee and eligible dependents
  • Retirement: King County employees are eligible to participate in a pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems and a 457(b) deferred-compensation plan
  • Transportation program and ORCA transit pass
  • 12 paid holidays each year (plus 2 personal holidays)
  • Generous vacation and paid sick leave
  • Paid parental leave, family and medical leaves, and volunteer leave
  • Flexible Spending Account
  • Wellness programs
  • Onsite gyms and activity centers
  • Employee giving program
  • Employee assistance programs
  • Flexible schedules and telecommuting options, depending on position
  • Training and career development programs

For additional information about employee benefits please visit our
Benefits, Payroll, and Retirement Page
.
This is a general description of the benefits offered to eligible King County employees, and every effort has been made to ensure its accuracy.  If any information on this document conflicts with the provisions of a collective bargaining agreement (CBA), the CBA prevails.  Also, in the event of any incorrect information in this document, applicable laws, policies, rules, CBAs, or official plan documents will prevail.
NOTE:
Benefits for Term Limited Temporary (TLT) or Short Term Temporary (STT) positions, including leave eligibility and/or participation in the pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems, will vary based upon the terms and details of the position. Short Term Temporary positions are not eligible for an ORCA transit pass.
For inquiries about the specifics of this position, please contact the recruiter identified on this job posting.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

This is an amazing opportunity to be engaged in the election process!

The Department of Elections is searching for Language translation professionals to support the following languages:  Spanish, Korean, Chinese and Vietnamese.  This job posting will be used to fill multiple short term temporary positions to support the Language Services Program.  These individuals must be able to read, write and understand at the language proficiency testing level used by the Department.

These positions will translate and proof documents and web materials in Spanish, Korean, Chinese and Vietnamese; conduct research, and provide administrative support to other election work groups as needed during elections.  These positions are expected to begin on or after June 1, 2021 and last approximately one month.

The Department of Elections is searching for energetic and resourceful Language translation professionals who like to "get stuff done". The Administrative Specialist II position in the Elections Department combines an exciting environment with the opportunity to cultivate talents and apply a variety of skills. The ideal candidate will thrive in an innovative, fast-paced environment and will not hesitate to roll up both sleeves, work hard, have fun, and get the job done.

King County Elections (KCE) manages voter registrations and elections for more than 1.3 million voters in King County, the largest vote-by-mail county in the United States. KCE's mission is to conduct fair, open and accurate elections.  As a leader in providing inclusive elections, KCE is focused on three key priorities – (1) actively identifying and working to remove barriers to voting at both the individual and community level, (2) strengthening relationships with community and governmental partners, and (3) creating a culture of professional growth and development, openness and inclusion. Learn more at www.kingcounty.gov/elections.aspx .
 
Who May Apply: This position is open to all qualified applicants.  Applications will be screened for qualifications and completion of all the required materials and forms.  The most competitive applicants may be contacted for further steps in the selection process, including testing on language proficiency and translation skills, as well as office and computer skills.
 
Forms and Materials Required: King County online application and answers to the supplemental questions.  Applications will be reviewed as received.

In this role you will have the opportunity to:
 

Translate or proof election-related documents and web materials to Spanish, Korean, Chinese or Vietnamese including but not limited to: voter registration information, letters and other correspondence to Limited English Proficiency (LEP) voters including, notice of elections, ballot titles and voters' pamphlet information, candidate statements, ballot measures, resolutions and related materials.
Review, edit and proofread all translated documents produced by translation service providers and others for accuracy, clarity and consistency.

Fluency in English, including written and verbal communication and understanding of grammar.
Must be able to read, write and understand one of the following 4 languages at the department's language proficiency testing level:  Spanish, Korean, Chinese or Vietnamese.
High level of language experience including interpreting, reading and writing into one of the 4 languages (Candidates will be tested to determine translation skills).
Office and computer skills including the use of Word, Excel, and Outlook.  (Candidates will be tested on office and computer skills.)
Ability to work under pressure and meet strict deadlines.
Ability to work both independently and as a member of a team.
Ability to follow direction.
Flexibility in the workplace and with weekly schedule.

Desired Qualification:
 
Professional experience translating technical, legal, educational and/or political documents from English into one of the 4 languages.

Travel to work locations throughout King County with limited or no public transportation services is required. A valid Washington State Driver's License is required to operate King County vehicles.

TESTING:  Candidates who meet the qualifications will be invited in for testing.  Testing will consist of the following:  data entry, physical agility, language speaking and listening, and performing written translations on a computer using a language keyboard.

UNION: This position is represented by Teamsters Local 117, Professional & Technical and Administrative Employees.
 
PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS:  The duties in this position are performed in an office setting and may be required to lift at least 25 lbs.
 
Temporary Telecommuting Requirement 
Some of the work associated with this position will be performed remotely, at least through July 5, 2021 in compliance with King County’s telecommuting mandate.  Employees will be provided with a County issued laptop and must maintain a workspace with an internet connection where they can reliably perform work and remain available and responsive during scheduled work hours.  Employees must reside in WA state and within a reasonable distance to their King County worksite to respond to workplace reporting requirements.  There will be situations where the employee is required to report to a County worksite.  Please note that when an employee conducts work that is likely to bring them in contact with another individual, safety precautions are required by the department in alignment with the Public Health Directive from the Seattle & King County Public Health Officer.
 
To support employees during this time King County has a robust collection of tools and resources to support working remotely. The individual selected for this opportunity will be joining an innovative and progressive team. King County is doing its part to reduce the spread of COVID-19 and remains committed to reducing our carbon footprint.
 
Forbes recently named King County as one of Washington State's best employers.
   
Together, with leadership and our employees, we're changing the way government delivers service and winning national recognition as a model of excellence. Are you ready to make a difference? Come join the team dedicated to serving one of the nation's best places to live, work and play.
 
Guided by our "True North", we are making King County a welcoming community where every person can thrive. We value diversity, inclusion and belonging in our workplace and workforce. To reach this goal we are committed to workforce equity. Equitable recruiting, support, and retention is how we will obtain the highest quality workforce in our region; a workforce that shares and will help advance our guiding principles--we are one team; we solve problems; we focus on the customer; we drive for results; we are racially just; we respect all people; we lead the way; and we are responsible stewards. We encourage people of all backgrounds and identities to apply, including Native American and people of color, immigrants, refugees, women, LGBTQ+, people living with disabilities, and veterans.
 
King County is an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Employer
No person is unlawfully excluded from employment opportunities based on race, color, religion, national origin, sex (including gender identity, sexual orientation and pregnancy), age, genetic information, disability, veteran status, or other protected class. Our EEO policy applies to all employment actions, including but not limited to recruitment, hiring, selection for training, promotion, transfer, demotion, layoff, termination, rates of pay or other forms of compensation.
 
To Apply 
If you are interested in pursuing this position, please follow the application instructions carefully. If you need this announcement in an alternate language or format, would like to request accommodation or assistance in the application or assessment process or if you have questions please contact your recruiter listed on this job announcement.
 
For more information regarding this recruitment, please contact:  
 Reeshema Lewis
 Sr. Human Resources Analyst
 Reeshema.Lewis@kingcounty.gov
 (206) 263-8413 