=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Bilingual Coordinator / Clerk
Salary: $11.50 - $11.50 HOUR
Location: Administrative Center - 28 East Market Street, York, PA, 17401-1586
Employer: County of York
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2020-11-18
Job Type: Full-Time
Job Number: 0022
Department: Voter Registration/Elections
Opening Date: 11/19/2020

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Assist in the voter registration and election process. Coordinates all bilingual activities of the Election/Voter Registration Office.

ESSENTIAL REQUIREMENTS, DUTIES, AND RESPONSIBILITIES
 

Assemble and pack supplies for local election boards.
Answer telephone.
Assist in the voter registration and election process including scanning signatures.
Assist at the front counter.
File as required.
Assist Spanish-speaking voters, candidates and other members of the public through interpretation and service.
Coordinate all bilingual activities of the Election/Voter Registration Office.
Speak before various community groups concerning the election/voter registration process.
 
Other reasonable duties as assigned by Supervisor.

The County strives to attract and retain top performers.  Offering a comprehensive/competitive compensation package supports this effort.  Compensation packages go beyond earnings.   A Compensation Package is the sum of direct benefits (salary, allowances, bonuses, commissions) and indirect benefits (insurance, pension, vacations, etc.) received from an employer.  Employee benefits are optional, indirect non-wage components of a compensation package provided to employees, in addition to their regular wages or salaries.Subject to the correlating Collective Bargaining Agreement, the following summary discusses employee benefits made available by the County.All full-time employees, regularly scheduled to work thirty-two (32) or more hours per week, are eligible for employee benefits and may elect to participate in County offered health plans.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Waiting PeriodFull-time employees will be eligible for medical, vision, prescription and dental coverages on the first day of the month following sixty (60) calendar days of employment, upon application by employee.Other benefits such as life insurance and short-term disability coverages will become effective the first day of the month following ninety (90) calendar days of employment.Remember-you must enroll to begin your health benefits coverage.DependentsDependents may be eligible for medical, prescription, vision, and dental insurances. Dependents could include your spouse (any legally married spouse, including same sex and opposite sex), dependents under age twenty-six (26), and unmarried children who are physically or mentally disabled, at any age, so long as the child was disabled prior to age twenty-six (26).Contribution RatesWhen enrolled into health benefits, the employee and the County share the cost which varies by the coverage selection and number of dependents.  Employee contributions are paid through payroll deductions.Contribution rates for medical/health coverages are set forth in the Collective Bargaining Agreement.Medical Insurance and Prescription CoverageHealth insurance benefits are considered the foundation of any benefit program.  By providing protection against unexpected and catastrophic medical care expenses, the County's medical care and prescription drug plan is one of your most important and valuable benefit programs.  Employees can experience a peace of mind, leading to increased productivity and satisfaction, by being assured that they and their families have financial protection over medical mishaps. Health insurance is described as coverage for participants and their dependents, providing payment of expenses incurred by the insured for medical care resulting from sickness or injury.  The County currently offers the choice of two (2) medical plans, a Preferred Provider Organization (PPO) plan and a High Deductible Health Plan (HDHP).Prescription drug coverage is separate from the medical plan and is administered through a pharmacy benefit manager.  Covered medications can be purchased from a participating retail pharmacy or through the mail order pharmacy.Employee co-payments for regular office visits, visits to specialists, emergency room, and various tiers of prescription drugs are set forth in the Collective Bargaining Agreement.Vision InsuranceVision insurance is a financial protection plan for reduced costs and/or fees associated with routine preventive eye care, and vision correction services and products.  The County offers both basic and enhanced vision options, with required employee contributions being determined by the choice of plans.Dental InsuranceDental plans integrate financial assistance and delivery of services to covered individuals to meet general dental care needs.  The County offers both basic and enhanced dental  options, with required employee contributions being determined by plan selection.Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA)The County provides three (3) separate FSA accounts that cover (1) medical, dental and other health care expenses, (2) child/dependent day care, and (3) qualified parking expenses.  Your contributions to the FSA are deducted from your pay on a pre-tax basis.  The Medical Reimbursement Account includes a debit card for immediate access.A Flexible Spending Account can give you significant savings on applicable/eligible expenses not covered by insurance.Waive InsuranceFull-time employees, who can demonstrate health insurance coverage from another source, may opt out of medical, dental, prescription and vision insurance coverages.  Under this arrangement, the employee is provided with an annual pro-rated opt-out payment during the year after the employee has waived insurance.Basic Term Life InsuranceTerm life insurance coverage, including an Accidental Death and Dismemberment Rider, is provided to all full-time employees.  There is no cost to the employee for this coverage.  In the event of death, the County will pay your selected, designated beneficiary(s) the amount of $35,000. Coverage remains in effect as long as the employee is actively employed on a full-time basis, and terminates upon resignation or retirement.Optional Term Life InsuranceEmployees can purchase additional term life insurance for themselves, and if enrolled, coverage for eligible dependents can be purchased.  Cost is determined via group rates and is paid through convenient payroll deductions.Short Term DisabilityTo ensure income protection to employees who have a non-work related accident, injury, or illness that lasts beyond seven (7) calendar days, the County provides a short term disability income insurance plan, at no expense to the employee.   The period of short term disability benefits can be paid up to twenty-six (26) weeks, at the rate of sixty-six and two-thirds (66 2/3%) percent of base wages.PensionThe County Retirement Fund was established to provide ancillary income during retirement, supplementing Social Security benefits, as well as personal savings/assets.All employees who are regularly scheduled to work at least one thousand (1,000) hours per year are required to contribute to the Plan a minimum of five percent (5%) of their pensionable wages, as defined in the Summary Plan Description, per pay period to the Plan on a tax deferred basis.   Employees have the option of contributing up to an additional ten (10%) percent to the fund on an after-tax basis.Contributions will commence immediately, and will be reflected in your initial pay, and every pay period thereafter.  The County provides a yearly personalized statement to participating employees regarding the status of their individual pension account.Upon the earlier of completion of five (5) years of employment service or reaching the age of sixty (60), participating employees are considered to be "vested"  (entitled to receive a pension benefit).Deferred Compensation PlanEmployees may participate in an optional deferred compensation plan [457(b)] which may provide  tax advantages and future retirement savings.  Such arrangements, making it easy for employees to voluntarily set aside more money for retirement, are made directly with the provider.  The sole responsibility of the County is administering payroll deductions.Employee Assistance Program (EAP)To help in resolving personal matters that affect families or job performance, the County provides confidential access to professional counseling services for employees and their immediate family members.  An employee or qualified dependent is eligible to receive up to three (3) counseling sessions, individual or group, at no cost, after which sessions may be covered by an employee's   health insurance plan.  This program provides for anonymity of the employee and/or dependent.  The confidentiality of clients is always maintained, except under certain legally required instances.Eligibility commences on the first day of employment. HolidaysThe County designates thirteen (13) paid holidays each year.   Eligibility commences the first day of employment; however, in order to receive holiday pay, an employee must be on compensable time the scheduled workday before and the scheduled workday following the holiday.Paid Time Off (PTO)The County provides a flexible approach to time off, acknowledging that employees have diverse needs for time away from work, such as rest, relaxation, illness, etc.   To meet those needs, the County offers a PTO benefit to full-time employees, working at least thirty-two (32) hours per week on a regular basis. PTO is accumulated monthly upon hire or transfer into a benefit-eligible position, according to the schedule contained with the Collective Bargaining Agreement.   PTO accumulations are available for use following ninety (90) calendar days of employment. BereavementThe County recognizes the need for time away from work in instances of personal loss. Full-time employees who have a death in their immediate family are granted time off with pay in recognition of the need to make arrangements associated with the death and to attend the funeral or memorial service.  Dependent upon the relationship of a deceased family member, employees may receive up to four (4) days with pay, according to the scheduled located in the Collective Bargaining Agreement. Tuition ReimbursementThe County's primary objective in the implementation of tuition reimbursement is to improve the work-related skills of employees for the benefit of the citizens of the County.  All full-time employees who have successfully completed one (1) year of employment may be eligible for tuition reimbursement involving degreed program courses of study, through accredited colleges, universities, trade schools, on-line learning sites or other approved training institutions, which are directly related to the employee's position, agency and/or departmental needs.Jury DutyEmployees summoned for jury duty shall be granted time off while attending court as a jury member.  Subject to proper submission of documentation and following detailed procedures, the employee will be paid by the County at his/her normal base rate of pay.DisclaimerThe information in this summary of benefits is intended for informational purposes only and is subject to change or update without prior notice.  The County reserves the right to make improvements and/or changes in products, pricing, or programs described in this information at any time without notice.        