=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Campaign Finance Director
Salary: $64,270.00 - $112,472.00 YEAR
Location: Wake County, NC
Employer: State of North Carolina
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2021-04-26
Job Type: Permanent Full-Time
Job Number: 60088205-04272021
Department: State Board of Elections
Division: State Board of Elections
Opening Date: 04/27/2021
Closing Date: 5/12/2021 5:00 PM Eastern
Position Number: 60088205
Section: Campaign Finance
Salary Grade: GN15

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Max Salary: $85,101

The N.C. State Board of Elections is the statewide agency that supervises elections administration, enforces campaign finance requirements, and conducts associated investigations.  The State Board ensures uniform implementation of state and federal election laws and appoints local officials serving on county boards of elections. The Board is composed of five individuals appointed by the Governor from lists of nominees submitted by the chairs of the two political parties having the highest number of registered affiliates.  Agency staff are civil servants subject to the State Personnel Act. 

Primary Purpose of the Division:
The Campaign Finance Division is responsible for the administration of campaign finance disclosure, auditing, and the penalty process for non-compliance with laws and regulations. The division processes and audits all reports submitted at the state level, provides guidance and training to county boards of elections for county level filing, and ensures training is provided to committees as required by statute.
 
Primary Purpose of the Position:  
The primary purpose of this position is to oversee the agency’s administration of campaign finance disclosure, auditing, and the non-compliance process, supervise the program analysts and disclosure specialists, and develop processes, procedures, policies, and training for the laws and regulations for state and county campaign finance administration and for committee treasurers, candidates,  and other regulated entities. This position works collaboratively with other agency divisions including Election Administration, Training & Outreach, Business Operations, Legal, and Investigations.  The position works closely with the Associate General Counsel focused on campaign finance to ensure policies and procedures are legally compliant. This position works with legal and investigations to provide input on campaign finance investigations. It also provides recommendations on policies, advisory opinions, and investigations to the agency’s executive director and board members as needed.
 
Description of Work: 
Direct and supervise administration of campaign finance disclosure, auditing, and the non-compliance process. Develop processes, procedures, and policies for State and county campaign finance administration. Possesses in-depth knowledge of accounting practices, complex auditing processes, and campaign finance law and procedures.
 
Supervise campaign finance staff, ensuring training, accuracy, and adherence to standard operating procedures and program goals.
 
Provide guidance on investigations. Analyze, evaluate, and make recommendations to the agency’s executive director and board members regarding campaign finance policies, advisory opinions, and investigations.
 
Work with the Training and Outreach Team to develop and deliver training for county directors, committee treasurers, candidates, and other regulated entities.
 
Work with the county boards of elections to support county level filing and auditing and ensure communication with county staff regarding non-compliant committees and other filers that file reports with the county board of elections. 

Proficient knowledge of accounting practices and procedures as related to campaign finance administration.
Thorough knowledge of and ability to interpret, apply, and communicate statutory regulations pertaining to campaign finance policies, statutes, and regulations.
Ability to analyze, interpret, recommend, and implement campaign finance policy, processes, and procedural guidelines. 
Ability to plan, organize, and supervise the work of others. 
Ability to train and manage employees engaged in specific campaign finance programs and achieve program goals.
Ability to develop and maintain effective working relationships with coworkers, multiple governmental agencies, county election officials, and the general public.
Ability to convey information clearly and concisely either verbally or in writing to ensure that the intended audience understands the information. 
Ability to listen and respond appropriately to others.
Ability to remain flexible to meet constantly changing and sometimes opposing demands.
Ability to quickly learn new business concepts and processes.
Ability to work independently and use sound judgment in making decisions.
Ability to travel in-state, as needed.

Bachelor's degree from an appropriately accredited institution and three (3) years of program experience related to the area of assignment, including one year of supervisory program experience; or an equivalent combination of training and experience.

For permanent and time-limited appointments:Eligible employees have benefits that include employee health insurance options, standard and supplemental retirement plans, NC Flex (a variety of high-quality, low-cost benefits on a pre-tax basis), and paid vacation, sick, and community service leave, to name a few.  Paid parental leave is available for eligible employees.  Some benefits require 30 + hours work/week for participation.For temporary, contract or other supplemental staffing appointments:There are no paid leave, retirement or other benefits associated with these appointment types. 


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Does your application confirm that you have at least 3 years of experience in Campaign Finance or a closely related field?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have working in election administration?
        
        
                None
                Less than a year
                1 - 3 years
                Over 3 years
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Please describe your approach to leading a team.
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        