=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections and Recording Manager
Salary: $6,494.80 - $8,706.53 MONTH
Location: Salem, OR, OR, 97309
Employer: Marion County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2021-12-29
Job Type: Full-time Regular
Job Number: 007-2021-1
Department: Clerk's Office
Opening Date: 12/29/2021
Closing Date: 1/12/2022 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Exempt
Bargaining Unit: 02

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

The Marion County Clerk’s Office is seeking a dynamic, experienced, trusted leader as our next Elections and Recording Manager in Salem, Oregon, our capitol city. Salem is Oregon’s central hub to cultural venues and events, valley vineyards and wineries, the coast and the mountains. Competitive applicants will be highly motivated, detail-orientated, have well developed management and supervisory skills, and have a strong commitment to outstanding customer service. A demonstrated ability to maintain an environment of high integrity and dependability is critical in this role.

GENERAL STATEMENT OF DUTIES
The County Clerk's Office is responsible for conducting elections, issuing marriage licenses, recording specified documents, maintaining official records and coordinating the Board of Property Tax Appeal as required by law.

The Elections and Recording Manager is responsible for managing the technical and administrative activities of licensing and recording, elections, maintenance of official records, and coordinating the Board of Property Tax Appeals. This individual also serves as the County's Records Officer's designee and ensures that recording activities comply with federal, state and local statutes, regulations and rules.  Specific functions include records storage, microfilming and digital imaging operations, retention and disposition scheduling, archival storage and information management.

This individual works closely and cooperatively with the County Clerk to ensure the County Clerk remains informed of all critical issues. This individual may also represent the County Clerk in public meetings and presentations.
 
SUPERVISION RECEIVED
Works under the general supervision of the County Clerk who ensures conformance with all federal, state, and county practices, policies and standards.
 
SUPERVISION EXERCISED
Exercises supervision over clerical and technical personnel in the County Clerk office, including temporary employees and election board members engaged in elections, licensing and recording  microfilm operations while archiving legal documents. Advises the County Clerk with hiring, discipline and dismissal decisions. Conducts performance evaluations, handles personnel issues, and responds to grievances.

Provide supervision, direction and leadership for supervisory, clerical and technical personnel, including contract employees, temporary employees, and election board workers. Coordinate staff education and training while advising on hiring, discipline and dismissal decisions.
Responsible for establishing and implementing department policies, procedures, standards and practices to meet departmental goals, objectives and direction set by the County Clerk.
Responsible for the coordination and management of elections in Marion County, including the oversight of ballot and voter pamphlet layout, design and printing: ballot tabulation, coding and testing; voter registration practices. Responsible for initiative, referendum and recall petition administration; jurisdictional mapping for state redistricting including local precinct and district boundary adjustments and district annexations. Coordinate mailings and conduct ballot tracking with the United States Postal Service.
Assist in the County Clerk's departmental budget preparation and implementation; determines and validates costs; tracks fees collected for and disbursements made to state and county departments; monitor budget expenditures; and administer the approved budgets for the department.
Responsible for preparing annual reports for the County Clerk supporting function costing, statutory reporting of elections costs to the Secretary of State, and jurisdictional apportionment and billing.
Responsible for oversight of record preservation, storage, protection and disaster recovery plans; the compliance of record retention and disposition schedules aligned with federal and state regulations; identifies and projects current and future needs in micrographics, digital imaging, and records storage.
Act as program manager for the Federal Passport Application Acceptance Program; ensure acceptance facility and agent's conformance with federal laws, rules, regulations, and annual training requirements.
Responsible for negotiating and administering contracts for services, materials and equipment; determining cost feasibility of special projects and implementation of new programs and procedures within established guidelines set by the County Clerk.
Responsible for ensuring that the County Clerk's office is in compliance with federal and state statutes, rules and regulations; receives reviews and investigates citizen and agency complaints; conducts elector eligibility hearings and investigates potential election law violations.
Consult with Marion County Information Technology  to develop, implement and maintain computer programs and database files used to store track and retrieve information on documents and records; researches new technology to improve process and system efficiency.
Consult with Federal and State agencies, and the County Clerk to analyze, interpret and apply state and federal statutes, legal opinions, and administrative rules.
Perform other duties as assigned.

Marion County offers a generous benefits package to regular employees working 50% or more of the regularly scheduled work week and their eligible dependents.  Temporary employees and part-time regular employees working less than 50% of the regularly scheduled work week are not eligible for benefits.For a summary of benefits, click here.  For a complete and detailed overview of the benefits package for management and supervisory employees, click here, and select Management Benefits from the left menu or Management Employees from the page links. Benefits are defined based on position and are approved by the Marion County Board of Commissioners.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        In order to receive credit for your supplemental questions, your answers must be supported by details in the education and/or work experience section of your application form.   Do you understand this statement?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        What is the highest level of education you have successfully completed?
        
        
                GED
                High school
                At least 1 year of college (31 semester or 45 quarter credits)
                Associate degree (62 semester or 90 quarter credits)
                At least 3 years of college (93 semester or 135 quarter credits)
                Bachelor's degree (124 semester or 180 quarter credits)
                Master's degree (155 semester or 225 quarter credits)
                Doctorate degree (186 semester or 270 quarter credits)
                None of the above
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Indicate how many years of full-time work experience you have in elections, licensing and records management.  (One year of work experience is equal to 2080 hours.)
        
        
                Less than 1 year
                1 year to less than 2 years
                2 years to less than 3 years
                3 years to less than 4 years
                4 years to less than 5 years
                5 years to less than 6 years
                6 years to less than 7 years
                7 years to less than 8 years
                8 years to less than 9 years
                9 years to less than 10 years
                10 years or more
                None of the above
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Please specify the place(s) of employment where you gained the work experience listed in the previous question.  Write NA in the box if this question does not apply to you.  Experience listed in this answer must be supported by the work experience section of your application.  "See resume" is not an acceptable answer.
        
        
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Indicate how many years of full-time supervisory work experience you have.  Supervisory experience must include primary (not just input into) responsibility for hiring, coaching, training, performance evaluations, and termination of employees.  (One year of work experience is equal to 2080 hours.)
        
        
                Less than 1 year
                1 year to less than 2 years
                2 years to less than 3 years
                3 years to less than 4 years
                4 years to less than 5 years
                5 years to less than 6 years
                6 years to less than 7 years
                7 years to less than 8 years
                8 years to less than 9 years
                9 years to less than 10 years
                10 years or more
                None of the above
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Please specify place(s) of employment where you gained the supervisory work experience listed above.  Write NA in the box if this question does not apply to you.  EXPERIENCE LISTED IN THIS ANSWER MUST BE SUPPORTED BY THE JOB DUTIES LISTED IN THE WORK EXPERIENCE SECTION OF YOUR APPLICATION.  "See resume" is not an acceptable answer.
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        