=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Education Supervisor (Auditor - Supervisor I)
Salary: $97,505.28 - $126,683.00 YEAR
Location: 1221 SW 4th Ave, OR, OR, 97204
Employer: City of Portland
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2025-01-06
Job Type: Regular
Job Number: 2025-00039
Bureau: Office of the City Auditor
Opening Date: 01/06/2025
Closing Date: 1/27/2025 11:59 PM Pacific

BENEFITS:
  • Health Care (Medical, Vision and Dental)
  • Carrot Fertility
  • Wellness Benefits
  • Life Insurance
  • Long-term disability coverage to eligible employees and their families.
  • Employee Assistance Plan
  • Flexible Spending Accounts
  • Retirement
  • Oregon Public Employees Retirement System (PERS), including contributions to the PERS IAP plan paid by employer
  • Family Medical Leave
  • City Paid Parental Leave

AND SO MANY MORE!
Benefits may vary depending on bargaining unit and employment status.
Click here to review the many different benefits the City of Portland offers
.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

The Elections Division, within the City Auditor’s Office, is seeking a mission-driven, versatile elections professional to expand its public training and engagement across the fields of voter education, lobbying, and campaign finance. Particular emphasis will be on engaging historically underserved Portlanders by coordinating and conducting a community-based voter education grant program, managing curriculum design and public-facing information across regulations, and increasing understanding, trust, and transparency with Elections Division stakeholders. 

This position reports directly to the head of the City Elections Division. The Elections Division serves Portlanders by providing elections cycle management as well as oversight of campaign finance and lobbying regulations. Following the passage of measure 26-228 in 2022, the division has a new mandate to provide voter education. This role leads public education across these fields with travel throughout the Portland metro region. The position has a broad focus but will center voter education and recent electoral reforms with flexibility to prioritize campaign finance and lobbying education when necessary. Campaign finance and lobbying regulations govern the sources and limits of contributions in candidate campaigns (campaign finance) and attempts to influence City decision-making efforts (lobbying). Elections cycle management ranges from ballot qualification of candidates, initiative, referendum, and recall petitions, to ranked-choice voter education and results certification. 

The Auditor is an elected position, independent of City Council and accountable only to the public. The Auditor’s Office ensures open and accountable government by providing impartial reviews and investigations, access to public information, and services to City government and the public. It employs over 50 people across six divisions.

Responsibilities of the Elections Education Supervisor include:

Managing Citywide long- and short-term public education plans across elections division functions;
Overseeing multi-year procurement projects and budgets according to City and state requirements, and accommodating elections cycle peak service times;
Managing lifecycle of community-based grants including procedures for criteria, selection, and evaluation of grantee deliverables;
Acting as subject matter expert to conduct direct voter education focused on ranked choice voting and multi-member districts to a wide variety and size of audiences, including: community based organizations, public hearings, Council presentations, and other venues; 
Provide additional lobbying and campaign finance education to regulated communities throughout the year as needed;
Planning and coordinating large and small events and hearings throughout the Portland metro region;
Supervising staff and interns as necessary with primary duties related to voter education, election cycle management, technical and program coordination. Supervision includes up to one full time Analyst and two elections interns.
Focusing on relationship building with elected officials, lobbyists, campaigns, community-based organizations to direct resources that advance trust, understanding, and transparency; 
Identifying and analyzing areas for continuous improvement for training and public education across division functions;
Partnering with local and state elections officials to conduct education programming;
Creating internal and public facing reports and training material (such a videos or one-pagers) for public consumption; 
Analyzing large sets of election data and maps to inform education priorities;
Creating and maintaining budget plans for approval;
Exercising sound judgment and tact in dealing with sensitive and challenging situations; and
Communicating orally, in person, virtually, and in writing to various audiences. 

Successful candidates will have: 

Demonstrated high level, public facing project management experience; 
A deep understanding of government’s role in marginalizing some communities and how its actions impact distrust of government; 
Demonstrated organizational skills and fluency with new technology, including video training and project management software and tools; 
Expertise in culturally competent, plain language, and accessible communication;  
Proficiency and confidence facilitating and presenting across a variety of communication formats and platforms; 
Experience engaging lobbyists, candidates, campaigns, or voters in non-partisan educational contexts; 
Expertise in compliance in at least one area the Elections Division oversees, such as lobbying regulations, ballot qualification, or campaign finance; 
Demonstrated understanding of the role of impartiality, independence, and non-partisanship in elections education;
Experience supervising the work of others, either through project or personnel management;
A commitment to government accountability and transparency.

Please note: this position is not subject to recent directives requiring a full time return to office for City of Portland Managers and Supervisors announced by the Mayor on January 14, 2025. The Auditor’s Office is overseen by an independently elected official and currently operates a hybrid schedule, requiring staff in office in Portland City Hall for half of the pay period and allowing telework for the remaining work time. Questions about this policy, recent announcements, or other aspects of the role can be sent to Andrew.Bryans@portlandoregon.gov.

The Auditor’s Office values a diverse workforce and a culture of equity and inclusion in delivering public services and everyday interactions in the workplace. The Office encourages candidates with experience working with a broad range of individuals and diverse communities to apply.

Candidates must have at a minimum any combination of education and experience equivalent to the following:

High school diploma or GED; AND 
Two years of progressively responsible experience in a public agency, in particular related to compliance or education.

Preferred Qualifications

Experience leading or supervising the work of other employees;
Bachelor’s degree from an accredited college or university with major course work in public policy, political science, public affairs, public administration, law, communications, or a related field;
Four or more years of progressively responsible education or compliance experience related to voting, elections, campaign finance, disclosure based regulations, or a related field. 

TO APPLY:

Submit two documents:

(1) A resume

List professional and relevant volunteer experience; education and training; and the time periods for each. If you speak more than one language or have specialized skills, please list them. 

(2) Responses to Supplemental Questions

Describe how you meet the following minimum qualifications, which are required to be successful in this position. Where possible, connect items in your resume and provide examples to demonstrate how you meet these qualifications. It is advised that you use the numbered list below to ensure you respond to each item for which you have relevant skills or experience. When uploading this document to your online application, select “other” document. 

Question 1: Tell us about your experience independently managing complex projects that include multiple agencies, offices, or perspectives in a regulated environment. If applicable, note the public nature of the project and what you did to advance transparency. (Connect items in your resume to demonstrate how you meet this qualification, when possible).

Question 2: Describe your experience educating or engaging one of the following groups:

Voters
Candidates
Media
Lobbyists
Elected officials
Campaign representatives 

Question 3: From your perspective, identify the purpose of voter education in general and specifically within the City of Portland Elections Division.

Question 4: Tell us about your experience related to one of the following:

Drafting or applying election laws that center inclusion of racial or ethnic minorities, or populations historically underrepresented in government decision-making; 
Developing and implementing public education campaigns intended to reach historically underserved communities;
Ensuring equitable operations or program outcomes; 
Making workplaces and/or public spaces more inclusive;
Your experience as a member of a historically underrepresented group participating in government decision-making; or
Exposure to racial inequities and actions you took to help resolve them. 
If your experiences are different from those listed and you have a commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion, please explain how you will manifest that commitment in this position. (Connect items in your resume to demonstrate how you meet this qualification, when possible).

Question 5 (Optional): If you meet any of the preferred qualifications listed above, please briefly describe how. (Connect items in your resume to demonstrate how you meet this qualification, when possible).

Applicants must submit their resume and responses to supplemental questions through the City of Portland's online application system no later than 11:59 p.m. on the closing date. Emailed, mailed, or faxed applications will not be accepted. Your application materials should not exceed a total of five pages. Please do not include materials not requested.

Recruitment Timeline (subject to change)

Application period: January 6- January 27

Applications reviewed: January 28 – January 31

Interviews: February 3 – February 14

Job offer: February 24 – February 28

Additional Information

Salary range/Pay equity:  Per the Oregon State Pay Equity Law, individual salaries are determined based on the experience and education listed in a candidate’s resume/application. It is strongly encouraged to include any transferable experience (paid or unpaid regardless of how recent) to ensure an offer is reflective of all directly related and equivalent experience.  

Language pay differential: Auditor’s Office employees who speak one or more languages in addition to English, may be eligible to receive additional compensation if they qualify and use their language skills to assist the community.

Employee benefits: The City of Portland is committed to offering medical, dental, vision, basic life, and long-term disability coverage that provides quality care, support and value to eligible employees and their family members. Additional benefits such as flexible spending accounts, supplemental life insurance and employee assistance program coverage are available to ensure employees have the appropriate tools to safeguard themselves and their family. The City of Portland participates in PERS, the Oregon Public Employee Retirement System.  Find more information on the City of Portland's benefits here: https://www.portlandoregon.gov/bhr/60196 

Civil Service:   This position is in the Classified Service and subject to Civil Service provisions. It also is subject to the Human Resources Administrative Rules for the Auditor’s Office, City Charter, and Code.

Work status: Non-citizen applicants must be authorized to work in the United States at the time of application.

Work location: The position is based in City Hall, 1221 SW 4th Ave. The Auditor’s Office is currently operating in a hybrid schedule of in-person and remote work, with employees expected to work half-time in-person.

Veteran’s preference: If you are requesting Veteran's Preference, attach a copy of your DD214 and/or Veteran's Administration letter stating your disability to your profile (if applicable), as well as checking the box identifying yourself as a Veteran. You must request Veteran's Preference AND include a copy of your documentation for each recruitment you apply for. Veteran's Preference documentation must be submitted no later than 11:59 PM on the closing date of this recruitment.

Equal employment opportunity:  It is the policy of the City of Portland that no person shall be discriminated against based on race, religion, color, sex, marital status, family status, national origin, age, mental or physical disability, protected veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity or source of income. The City values diversity and encourages everyone who is interested in employment with the City to apply.

Disability, Pregnancy, and Religious Accommodations: If you identify as a person with a disability, are pregnant or nursing, or observe a religious practice(s) and would like to request a reasonable accommodation when applying for this job, contact Administrative Specialist Andrew Bryans at Andrew.Bryans@portlandoregon.gov.

Technical assistance: If you have questions about how to apply or require any assistance in submitting your application, please contact Administrative Specialist Andrew Bryans at Andrew.Bryans@portlandoregon.gov.

For more information about the Auditor’s Office: https://www.portlandoregon.gov/auditor/