=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Manager – Voter Services
Salary: $71,352.00 - $102,804.00 YEAR
Location: Boulder County, CO, CO, 80302
Employer: Boulder County
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2022-02-06
Job Type: Full-time
Job Number: 4287(MR6)
Department: Clerk and Recorders Office
Division: CLK Elections
Opening Date: 02/07/2022
Closing Date: 2/20/2022 11:59 PM Mountain
FLSA: Exempt

BENEFITS:
  • a family-friendly workplace, including paid caregiver leave, a breast feeding friendly-work environment, sick child care, an infants-at-work policy, and generous paid vacation, medical leave, and holidays
  • the opportunity to take charge of your well-being through a nationally-recognized wellness program, employee assistance program, and the choice of comprehensive health plans that include vision and dental coverage
  • peace of mind for the future with PERA pension, PERA 401k, and Social Security retirement plans, in addition to life and disability insurance, as well as critical illness and accidental insurance options
  • the opportunity to master new skills with robust learning programs and certificates, federal loan forgiveness (after ten years of public service), and county-paid tuition assistance for continuing education
  • Free EcoPass that can be used any time and for commuting to and from work, to the Denver Intranational Airport and Fort Collins and on all bus and rail lines operated by RTD. Opportunity to sign up for a free BCycle membership for bike share in Boulder.

For more information about benefits, visit the Jobs page: https://bouldercounty.gov/jobs/jobs-benefits/

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===




About the division
The Boulder County Clerk and Recorder's Office has an opening for an Elections Manager – Voter Services. This position oversees a defined functional area of the Elections Division, and is also instrumental in defining strategy, objectives, and implementation processes for all aspects of the Elections Division. The Elections Manager – Voter Services position reports to the Elections Director and is a member of the Elections Leadership Team.
The Elections Division provides comprehensive elections services for Boulder County, including voter records, voter services, ballot processing, technical and logistical support, and end-to end election administration. Commitment to building an inclusive, forward looking, continual improvement, and supportive work culture is required.

About the team
The Elections Division is passionate about the work we do for democracy and we are committed to facilitating the most positive voting experience in the country. We set a high bar for fulfilling our commitment to voters in Boulder County, and we are a national award-winning organization with a reputation for excellence, innovation, accuracy and continual improvement.

Commitment to ensuring we include historically excluded communities in our outreach and administration is vital to fulfilling our mission of facilitating democracy. This person must be committed to building a culture where individuals from any background can be successful, which includes ongoing work around disrupting patterns, systems, and behaviors of inequity and exclusion.

About the position
This position will be accountable for overseeing administrative, legal and technical areas and will have a vast amount of project and management responsibilities. This position is accountable for our Vote Centers, including site identification, contracting, accessibility, operations, and reconciliation and Election Judge activities, including recruiting, hiring, training, and placement. This position coordinates and oversees Ballot Drop-off site planning, including identifying and contracting of new locations as well as accessibility and contingency planning. Additionally, this position will create, support and oversee a variety of voter service and outreach programs and supervise up to 3 full time staff.

The ideal candidate will have a finesse and passion for making data-driven decisions and will implement a strong data program for Voter Services. We are an "all hands-on deck" team, and this position will be expected to execute any and all tasks to ensure our team meets or exceeds all deliverables.

The ideal candidate must have the ability and desire to serve the public and Boulder County and maintain compliance with election statute and rule. This person should have experience in supervision and motivating and leading employees (full-time and temporary) to success. Other skills include creation and implementation of ideas and processes that are forward thinking; be self-motivated, team oriented and an excellent communicator in both verbal and written form. The ideal candidate is committed to continuous learning (organizational level and self-development) and has project management skills (able to set clear goals, prioritize tasks, manage time efficiently, and effectively work with others for completion). Additionally, must demonstrate ability to supervise and lead teams in providing excellent service and project results within statute driven deadlines. In addition to teamwork and team leadership, this person will also act as an individual contributor on a variety of projects.

This position is expected to build strong working relationships with team members, vendors and stakeholders and be committed to Boulder County and Clerk and Recorder guiding values, including equity and inclusion. 

This is a full-time, benefitted position. During non-election time, this position will work Monday - Thursday, 7:00am - 5:30pm; this includes both in-office and telecommuting options.  During the election season, this position will require overtime, nights and weekends and is subject to periods of time when vacation scheduling is not allowed due to the election calendar. This position will work out of the Boulder County Clerk and Recorder's Office, located at 1750 33rd St., Boulder, CO 80301.  Under Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) guidelines, this position is exempt.
 


As of December 1, 2021, Boulder County requires all employees to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 or request an approved accommodation within ten days of accepting an offer of employment.  A person is considered fully vaccinated two weeks after completion of a two-dose mRNA series or one dose of Johnson and Johnson vaccine. 


 Boulder County requires its employees to reside in the state of Colorado as of the first day of work.
 
Hiring Salary Range: $66,072.00 - $80,628.00 Annually
Classification Salary Range: $66,072.00 - $95,184.00 Annually 


Tentative Hiring Timeline:

Phone Screening: February 23rd
First Round Interviews: February 28th
Second Round Interviews: March 10th

Participates as a member of the division management team in preparing and recommending effective improvements to all processes and building the culture of the division
Conducts performance appraisals, counsels employees concerning performance and recommends personnel actions in the areas of hiring, termination and discipline for up to 3 full time staff

Coordinate, support, and oversee Vote Center Operations and Ballot Drop Off Services end-to-end

Support the Vote Center and Outreach Supervisor in conducting outreach opportunities with voters and the public – including election judge recruitment, community and high school presentations, and other community engagement opportunities

Ensures Standard Operating Procedures are updated and accurate for training current and new employees and election temporary workers

Assist with research, feedback and tracking of pending election legislation for the current session of the Colorado General Assembly

Establish and maintain effective working relationships with employees, other agencies, party representatives/advocates, VSPC/ballot drop-off locations and the public

Study and leverage other industry partners and like-industries to bring best-practices to Boulder County

Provide planning and implementation support for cross-functional operations related to Ballot Processing, Front Office and Voter Registration services

Learn and apply a comprehensive knowledge of SCORE (the election voter registration database)

Represent the Boulder County Clerk and Recorder's Office on Colorado County Clerk's Association Committees relevant to duties

Attend trainings, conferences, workshops and lectures as appropriate to develop new skills, enhance and maintain knowledge, complete election certification and stay informed of developments in the field

Be accountable for excellent service provided to the public

Other duties as assigned
May be reassigned during emergency situations

PLEASE NOTE: When submitting your application be sure to include all relevant education and experience, as applications are screened based on the qualifications listed in this position announcement. Applications that do not appear to meet minimum qualifications, as outlined below, will not be considered. Resumes are not accepted in lieu of completed applications.
 
Please be aware that your cover letter and resume will not be accessed in the initial screening process, so you must complete your application and supplemental questions with as much detail as possible. Any personally identifiable information (PII) such as name and address will be redacted from applications that meet the minimum screening requirements and are forwarded to the hiring manager. If the hiring manager selects you to advance in the hiring process, your cover letter and resume will then be accessible to the hiring team.

EDUCATION & EXPERIENCE:
Boulder County is looking for well qualified candidates to fill the position.  Any combination of relevant education and experience is encouraged. In this position, we are looking for a minimum of five (5) years of combined education and experience, including at least one year in a supervisory capacity. 

For example:
1. Five years of experience in creating and/or managing complex projects and/or processes, supervising and developing teams, customer/public service, business analysis work, or project management experience, which includes at least one year in a supervisory capacity; OR
2. An associate degree, plus three years of experience in creating and/or managing complex projects and/or processes, supervising and developing teams, customer/public service, business analysis work, or project management experience, which includes at least one year in a supervisory capacity 



BACKGROUND CHECK:
A job offer is contingent on passing a criminal background investigation

DRIVER'S LICENSE:
Applicants must have a valid driver's license


PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS:

Experience in election administration is a plus, but not required

SCORE (Statewide Colorado Registration and Elections database) experience or voter database experience and knowledge of election law and process 

KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, & ABILITIES:
Be able to self-motivate and work collaboratively with the ability to clearly communicate in both verbal and written form

Be experienced with systems thinking, data planning and analysis, critical thinking and problem solving

During election time must be comfortable working in a fast paced, changing and deadline driven environment

Extreme attention to processes and detail is required

Ability to become comfortable reading election law and rules and seeking out clarification when needed

Be proficient in Microsoft Office products (Excel, Word, PowerPoint and Outlook) and use of personal computers 


Boulder County is a family-friendly workplace dedicated to fostering a diverse, inclusive, and respectful environment for all employees. We prohibit unlawful discrimination against applicants and employees on the basis of race, color, religion, gender, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, socio-economic status, sexual orientation, genetic information, or any other status protected by applicable federal, state, or local law.





