Building an Inclusive & Multiracial Democracy
In a multiracial nation, democracy must serve all of us. Democracy Fund works toward an inclusive, multiracial democracy that is open, just, resilient, and trustworthy. In collaboration with grantees, donors, and other partners, we are working to strengthen and expand the pro-democracy movement, defend against anti-democratic attacks, and advance structural change. Our democracy can’t wait. We hope you’ll join us.
The Latest See all Ideas
-
Report
What Democracy Funders Are Saying
November 24, 2025From September 2024 through September 2025, Democracy Fund conducted three short surveys to understand the perspectives of funders of democracy work. Overall, we surveyed 337 unique private foundations, individual donors, donor networks and collaboratives, funding intermediaries, and donor/philanthropic advisors. We measured funder attitudes on: The health and resilience of democracy Levels of concern about challenges […] -
External Content
What Does It Mean for Philanthropy to Be a Community Partner Anyway?
November 19, 2025In this article for Nonprofit Quarterly, Democracy Fund’s Janet Hernández explains the importance of trust for successful partnerships between philanthropic and nonprofit organizations. -
Blog
Democracy Fund’s Evolving Organizational and Program Strategy
September 26, 2025To meet this moment, we are shifting Democracy Fund’s programs and team structure. These changes will allow us to move with purpose and contribute to a safe, free, and secure future for all Americans. Over the next few months, Democracy Fund will continue to advance our new organizational and program strategy, aiming to complete the process by January 2026. -
Statement
Statement on the Shootings at Utah Valley University and Evergreen High School
September 10, 2025Political violence has become all too common in America. It must be condemned absolutely and in no uncertain terms wherever it occurs. While full details are still emerging, today’s almost simultaneous shootings at Utah Valley University and Evergreen High School, and the many horrific acts of violence over the years are a stark reminder that […]
What We Do
Democracy Fund supports the champions of our democracy, including movement leaders, activists, advocates, journalists, and public officials. We collaborate with our grantees, donors, and other partners to strengthen and expand the movement for an inclusive, multiracial democracy.