=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Training Administrator
Salary: $55,828.50 - $94,770.00 YEAR
Location: Manassas, VA, VA, 22192
Employer: Prince William County Government
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2018-12-26
Job Type: Full-Time (PF)
Job Number: 201204822
Department: ELECTIONS
Division: GENERAL REGISTRAR
Opening Date: 12/27/2018
Closing Date: 1/10/2019 11:59 PM Eastern
GRADE: 15

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

The Elections Training Administrator role is vital to successful and smooth elections in PWC. This role will be responsible for the election training schedule, developing relevant content for Officer of Election training sessions, and conducting trainings. Candidate must be comfortable answering difficult legal questions, have experience training a range of people and have experience as a public speaker. Work is performed under general supervision of the Director of Elections / General Registrar.

PREFERRED SKILLS:  Thorough knowledge of Virginia laws pertaining to Electoral Board and election officials; thorough knowledge of the types of elections held and how election type affects training; general knowledge of State of Virginia registration and election laws; ability to develop and present training programs; ability to communicate effectively, both orally and in writing; ability to maintain computer application skills to effectively coordinate, assemble and organize data; ability to work independently; ability to maintain cooperative relationships with the general public, County officials and elected officials through the Federal level.  

 Applicants will be required to have a valid driver's license, be able to pass a DMV  record check, and be, or be eligible to become a registered voter in the Commonwealth. Position serves at the pleasure of the General Registrar.

The statements in this class specification are intended to describe the general nature and level of work being performed by incumbent(s) assigned to this classification. They are not intended to be construed as an exhaustive list of all responsibilities, duties, and skills required of personnel so classified.


GENERAL DEFINITION OF WORK:
Performs responsible and administrative work developing and implementing the training program for the Office of Elections.  Work involves conducting training for Officers of Election prior to each election held in Prince William County and for Assistant Registrars on daily voter registration procedures.

 

Work is performed under general supervision of the Director of Elections / General Registrar.

TYPICAL TASKS:
Develops and trains Officers of Election on voting equipment operations (Verity Scan and the electronic poll books) and all procedural and policy steps as determined by Virginia Election Law and the Prince William County Electoral Board, working closely with the Election Officer Coordinator, Director of Elections/General Registrar and the Electoral Board; 
Coordinates the delivery of all training sessions;
Ensures that all training equipment is prepared and delivered to training sites;
Develops and prepares all related training materials;
Revises curriculum to include new Election Laws into training, such as Photo ID;
Develops tools and modules for a more robust online Officer of Elections training, to include recording training videos. 
Assists in resolving difficult voter transactions as part of Registration Team;
Trains new Assistant Registrars on office and voter registration policies and procedures.

KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS AND ABILITIES:
Thorough knowledge of Virginia laws pertaining to Electoral Board and election officials; thorough knowledge of the types of elections held and how election type affects training; general knowledge of State of Virginia registration and election laws; ability to develop and present training programs; ability to communicate effectively, both orally and in writing; ability to maintain computer application skills to effectively coordinate, assemble and organize data; ability to work independently; ability to maintain cooperative relationships with the general public, County officials and elected officials through the Federal level.

Any combination of education and experience equivalent to an Associate's Degree, and 1-2 years of Election office experience to include database and spreadsheet computer experience.

Must be or be eligible to be a registered voter in the State of Virginia;
Must possess a valid Virginia driver's license;
Must pass DMV record check.

Prince William County Government offers medical plans with corresponding pharmacy and vision coverage, as well as dental plans and a supplemental vision plan. Full-time and Part-time Prince William County Government employees are eligible to participate in our plans; however, the level of benefits depends on the classification of the position, and number of hours worked.The following appointment types accrue no leave and are not eligible for holidays or other fringe benefits:TemporaryPart-Time Non-Benefit Eligible (work less than 15 hours a week)VolunteersSeasonal employees Click on the link below to explore our plans and rates.Prince William County Benefits Programs