=== JOB DETAILS ===

Salary: $78,992.16 - $100,127.46 Annually
Location: WA 98057-2906, WA
Job Type: zzDNU_Special Duty Assign or Term Ltdt Temp (TLT)
Job Number: 2020RL11886
Department: KCE - King County Elections
Division: Administration
Opening Date: 07/17/2020
Closing Date: 7/31/2020 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Exempt
Bargaining Unit: F3A : L117-P&T

BENEFITS:
  • Excellent medical, dental, and vision coverage options: King County provides eligible employees with options, so they can decide what’s best for themselves and their eligible dependents
  • Life and disability insurance: employees are provided basic coverage and given the opportunity to purchase additional insurance for both the employee and eligible dependents
  • Retirement: eligible King County employees may participate in a pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems and a 457(b) deferred-compensation plan
  • Transportation program and ORCA transit pass
  • 12 paid holidays each year plus two personal holidays
  • Generous vacation and paid sick leave
  • Paid parental, family and medical, and volunteer leaves
  • Flexible Spending Account
  • Wellness programs
  • Onsite activity centers
  • Employee Giving Program
  • Employee assistance programs
  • Flexible schedules and telecommuting options, depending on position
  • Training and career development programs

For additional information about employee benefits, visit our
Benefits, Payroll, and Retirement Page
.
This is a general description of the benefits offered to eligible King County employees, and every effort has been made to ensure its accuracy.  If any information on this document conflicts with the provisions of a collective bargaining agreement (CBA), the CBA prevails.
NOTE:
Benefits for Term Limited Temporary (TLT) or Short Term Temporary (STT) positions, including leave eligibility and/or participation in the pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems, will vary based upon the terms and details of the position. Short Term Temporary positions are not eligible for an ORCA transit pass.
For inquiries about the specifics of this position, please contact the recruiter identified on this job posting.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

This benefits-eligible Term-Limited Temporary (TLT) position is anticipated to last for 6 months.  A Special Duty Assignment may be considered for King County Career Service employees who have passed their initial probationary period. 

The Department of Elections - is searching for an energetic and resourceful professional who likes to "get stuff done." The Communications Specialist III position in the Elections Department combines an exciting environment with the opportunity to cultivate talents and apply a variety of skills. The ideal candidate will thrive in an innovative, fast-paced environment and will not hesitate to roll up both sleeves, work hard, have fun, and get the job done. 

This position reports to the Chief of Staff for the Department of Elections and will be responsible for writing communications to inform voters, stakeholders and others about elections in King County, including press releases, talking points and other materials. A large part of this role will be serving as the lead and providing technical expertise for King County Election's active social media presence, designing advertising strategy and content, as well as responding to media and other inquiries. This position will support on-site tours, media visits, and other communication-related events. 

King County Elections (KCE) manages voter registrations and elections for more than 1.3 million voters in King County, the largest vote-by-mail county in the United States. KCE's mission is to conduct fair, open and accurate elections. As a leader in providing inclusive elections, KCE is focused on three key priorities – (1) actively identifying and working to remove barriers to voting at both the individual and community level, (2) strengthening relationships with community and governmental partners, and (3) creating a culture of professional growth and development, openness and inclusion. Learn more at www.kingcounty.gov/elections.aspx
 
This position will work with a team of highly qualified election professionals, so while some election experience would be helpful, it will be more important for this individual to be able to learn quickly and translate the information they get onto a variety of platforms and for a variety of audiences.

Who May Apply:  This position is open to the general public and all King County employees.

Materials Required to Apply: Applicants must submit a (1) King County Application, (2) Resume, (3) Letter of Interest, and (4) at least 2 recent, relevant Writing Samples (excerpts from longer documents are acceptable), up to 6 pages total. The letter of interest should describe how your education and experience meet the qualifications and have prepared you to perform the essential functions of the job. Applications without the required materials may not be considered for this position.

Work Schedule:  The standard workweek for this position is Monday through Friday, 40 hours per week.  We require the flexibility to work additional hours during peak periods of the Election cycle.  This position is exempt from the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act and is therefore not eligible for overtime.

In this role you will have the opportunity to:
 

Curate the department's various social media feeds  including Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.
Produce written materials such as press releases and media advisories.
Develop and manage KCE's websites, SharePoint sites and digital messaging system.
Perform basic layout and/or production design of KCE's advertisements, communications, brochures and/or reports.
Partner with various jurisdictions around the County/State to establish and maintain effective working relationships.
Support the independently elected Director of Elections by drafting internal communications, preparing presentations for a variety of external audiences, providing media support and developing talking points.
Work regularly with the media to proactively pitch stories, respond to inquiries and serve as a spokesperson for the department as needed.
Actively engage with employees across the department to identify communication needs and issues.

Superior written and verbal communication skills, including the ability to write on a short deadline.
Ability to work in a fast-paced environment with little supervision.
Ability to be a team-player who is creative, organized and has the ability to work across functional teams.
Available to work nights and weekends when required.
Knowledge of government and community processes and structures.
Strong current or recent experience curating a variety of social media platforms.
Demonstrated commitment to continuous improvement of work processes.
  
Most competitive candidates will have demonstrated the following experiences:         
 
Experience using emerging tools, devices and platforms.
Experience working with GovDelivery digital messaging system.
Basic understanding of desktop publishing programs such as Adobe In-Design or Photoshop.
Current or recent experience working with media.
Professional communications experience writing in the voice of a leader or organization.

Travel to work locations throughout King County with limited or no public transportation services is required. A valid Washington State Driver's License is required to operate King County vehicles. 

Union Membership: This position is represented by Teamsters, Local 117 Professional and Technical.
 
For more information regarding this recruitment, please contact: 
Reeshema Lewis
Sr. HR Business Partner
Email:  Reeshema.Lewis@kingcounty.gov
Phone: 206-263-8413

King County is proud to be an Equal Employment Opportunity /Affirmative Action employer and we encourage people of color, women, veterans and people with disabilities to apply. 