The U.S. Election Assistance Commission (EAC) was established by the Help America Vote Act of 2002 (HAVA). It is an independent, bipartisan commission charged with ensuring secure, accurate and accessible elections by developing guidance to meet HAVA requirements, adopting voluntary voting system guidelines, and serving as a national clearinghouse of information on election administration. EAC also accredits testing laboratories and certifies voting systems, as well as administers the use of HAVA funds.
While the EAC's mission remains unchanged, the current election environment is dynamic. It requires the commission to keep pace by deploying new cutting-edge approaches and establishing thoughtful initiatives that can improve the accessibility, accuracy and security of U.S. elections. For example, in, 2017, the U.S. election infrastructure was designated as "critical infrastructure" operating as a portion of the Government Facilities sector. Since this designation, the EAC has worked to provide subject matter expertise on elections and establish clear lines of communication with state and local election leaders regarding this designation. Additionally, the commission has hosted a series of summits and hearings and produced resources focused on protecting voter rights and guaranteeing voting access for eligible voters with disabilities, Limited English Proficiency, and those who are living overseas or serving in our nation's uniformed services. These initiatives and others like them underscore the EAC's important role in the election community.
For an overview of the diverse scope of EAC work to serve state and local election administrators, voters, and other key election stakeholders, please visit http://www.eac.gov.
The Chief Information Officer (CIO) establishes strategic direction and oversees EAC's information and information technology (IT) programs and services through IT policies, strategic plans, and the development and procurement of IT services and equipment. As a senior management official, the CIO shares overall responsibility with the Executive Director on matters involving leadership and direction in the formulation, development and execution of EAC's IT management program. The CIO is also tasked with ensuring the security and reliability of EAC systems and information.
The U.S. Election Assistance Commission (EAC) was established by the Help America Vote Act of 2002 (HAVA). It is an independent, bipartisan commission charged with ensuring secure, accurate and accessible elections by developing guidance to meet HAVA requirements, adopting voluntary voting system guidelines, and serving as a national clearinghouse of information on election administration. EAC also accredits testing laboratories and certifies voting systems, as well as administers the use of HAVA funds.
While the EAC's mission remains unchanged, the current election environment is dynamic. It requires the commission to keep pace by deploying new cutting-edge approaches and establishing thoughtful initiatives that can improve the accessibility, accuracy and security of U.S. elections. For example, in, 2017, the U.S. election infrastructure was designated as "critical infrastructure" operating as a portion of the Government Facilities sector. Since this designation, the EAC has worked to provide subject matter expertise on elections and establish clear lines of communication with state and local election leaders regarding this designation. Additionally, the commission has hosted a series of summits and hearings and produced resources focused on protecting voter rights and guaranteeing voting access for eligible voters with disabilities, Limited English Proficiency, and those who are living overseas or serving in our nation's uniformed services. These initiatives and others like them underscore the EAC's important role in the election community.
For an overview of the diverse scope of EAC work to serve state and local election administrators, voters, and other key election stakeholders, please visit http://www.eac.gov.
The Chief Information Officer (CIO) establishes strategic direction and oversees EAC's information and information technology (IT) programs and services through IT policies, strategic plans, and the development and procurement of IT services and equipment. As a senior management official, the CIO shares overall responsibility with the Executive Director on matters involving leadership and direction in the formulation, development and execution of EAC's IT management program. The CIO is also tasked with ensuring the security and reliability of EAC systems and information.
As the Chief Information Officer (CIO), you will provide policy, leadership and direction, and identify a strategy regarding how information technology can help the agency achieve its goals. You will ensure that all information technology functions are integrated, prioritized and executed within agency priorities and allocated resources. You will work closely with the General Services Administration (GSA), our shared service provider, and EAC IT professionals who deliver those services. You will serve as the thought leader and principal advisor to the EAC leadership team on technology, representing the agency on information technology matters in interactions with the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). Additionally, you will also participate in government-wide CIO council matters.
Duties may include but are not limited to the following:
As a basic requirement, applicants must demonstrate progressively responsible leadership experience that is indicative of senior managerial capability and directly related to the skills and abilities outlined in the "How You Will Be Evaluated" section of the Job Opportunity Announcement. Typically, experience of this nature will have been gained at the GS-15 grade level in the Federal service or its equivalent with state and local government, the private sector, or non-governmental organizations. Failure to meet this basic qualification requirement and will automatically disqualify an applicant.
We recommend that your resume emphasize your level of responsibilities, the scope and complexity of the programs managed, and your program accomplishments, including the results of your actions. You will be evaluated to determine if you meet the minimum qualifications required of the position and on the extent your application demonstrates that you possess the knowledge, skills, and abilities required of the Chief Information Officer. Please be sure to give concrete examples of your experience and demonstrate the complexity of the knowledge you possess.
This job does not have an education qualification requirement.
You will be evaluated for this job based on how well you meet the qualifications above.
YOU WILL BE EVALUATED ON ALL OF THE FOLLOWING PROFESSIONAL/TECHNICAL QUALIFICATIONS (PTQs): Your responses to the PTQs should be addressed separately from your resume and not to exceed seven (7) pages in total.
PTQ 1. Demonstrated experience in identifying and applying best practices in information technology, acquisition of technology, and the relevant policies, procedures, practices and principles necessary to ensure successful delivery of IT investments.
PTQ 2. Demonstrated experience in creating and managing IT programs and related contractual agreements, which includes skill in negotiation for resources.
PTQ 3. Demonstrated experience and knowledge of cyber security operations, to include comprehensive risk management and compliance programs.
PTQ 4. Demonstrated experience and knowledge in effectively managing IT professionals, developing IT strategic plans, and directing resource allocation.
In addition to a RESUME, you must submit the following applicable supporting documents:
PROFESSIONAL/TECHNICAL QUALIFICATION (PTQs): Each of the PTQ's listed in the HOW YOU WILL BE EVALUATED section of the Job Opportunity Announcement MUST be addressed: failure to address all PTQ's precisely as worded in a separate narrative statement will eliminate you from consideration. Number each of your responses with the PTQ number you are addressing and provide specific examples of your experience, education and accomplishments that are applicable. Please limit your responses to no more than one page for each PTQ. Please DO NOT incorporate your PTQ responses into your resume; instead submit your answers separately from your resume.
Submit a narrative statement responding to the knowledge, skills and abilities (KSAs) identified in the "How You Will Be Evaluated" section of the announcement. This information will be used to determine if your application materials will be selected for further consideration and is required.
Your complete application (resume, narrative statement, and all supporting documents) must be received by 11:59 pm Eastern Standard Time (EST) on Friday, October 20, 2017. Applications received after October 20, , 2017 may result in the loss of consideration. If more than one resume is received, only the last resume received and processed will be reviewed.
Send Application Materials to:
Resumes@eac.gov
Please read the "How To Apply" and the "How You Will Be Evaluated" sections.
The Federal hiring process is set up to be fair and transparent. Please read the following guidance.