=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Supervisor
Salary: $36.44 - $46.33 HOUR
Location: Tacoma, WA, WA, 98409
Employer: Pierce County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2022-11-10
Job Type: Career Service - Full Time
Job Number: 22-00860
Department: Auditor
Division: Auditor-Elections
Opening Date: 11/10/2022

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Why It's a Great Opportunity: 
We are looking for an experienced and strategic elections professional with a working knowledge of the technology and processes used in elections. You will be foundational in providing coaching, feedback, and performance reviews for an award-winning team with the leadership and guidance of our Elections Manager. Our work is cutting edge and you will be a vital member of our team!
 
Why It's a Great Department:  
The Pierce County Auditor's Office is responsible for elections, licensing services, and public records. This position supervises an award-winning division in the second largest county in Washington State. There is plenty of activity between elections and experienced staff to accomplish division goals. The Auditor's Office promotes innovation and process improvement.
 
The Auditor’s Office Elections Division maintains voter registration rolls, conducts federal, state and local elections, verifies petition signatures, publishes a local Voters’ Pamphlet, and maintains precinct lines after redistricting. Pierce County has over 550,000 registered voters and conducts four elections each year. The Elections Division serves 114 jurisdictions (boundary lines, voter assignment, elections) and files candidates for over 500 elected offices.
 
How to be Successful in the Role
We are looking for someone passionate about election integrity, the democratic process, innovation, and accuracy. As someone with an understanding of federal, state and local laws, rules, and regulations, you will use your independent judgment and effective decision-making to apply those to our elections process.  We need someone who has excellent communication skills across all levels of the organization including residents, staff, and stakeholders.
 
Your Future in this Role
As the Elections Supervisor, you will have the ability to immediately contribute to the division’s success. You will be guided through the process with coaching-focused managerial support, a team that wants you to be successful in your role, and an organizational culture that encourages continuous learning and professional development. You will be influential across the state, networking with other counties, sitting on advisory committees, and collaborating with the Elections Manager on policy decisions.  
 
Core Daily Responsibilities:


Ensure consistent interpretation and compliance with laws, rules, policies and procedures.
Manage the daily functional and administrative operations of the division.
Analyzes, formulates and changes operating procedures to facilitate the efficient operation of the division meeting all legal requirements.
Prepares Canvassing Board and Certification Reports for each election.
Implement, advise, and monitor the development, measurement, and execution of the mission, goals, and objectives of the County, department, division and individual work groups.
Assist with division budget preparation.
Approve purchase requisitions, purchase orders and other financial transactions.
Assist with all aspects of election RFPs.
Supervise the activities of the Elections Division staff to include, schedules, workflow; performance evaluations, training and investigate grievances, recommend hiring, promotional and disciplinary actions; approve leave requests, and overtime; and assure adequate coverage. Provides technical assistance to staff in answering questions and resolving problems related to elections and voter registration. 
A classification description with a more detailed list of essential function can be found here: 

MINIMUM QAUALIFICATIONS


Four years of progressively, responsible office and operational experience and
Two years of supervisory or lead experience is required.
An equivalent combination of experience and education including two years in a supervisory or lead position may substitute for the recruiting requirements on a year for year basis.
Two years full time work experience in an Elections Division and Certification as an Elections Administrator under (WAC) and (RCW) regulations is highly preferred.
Certification as an Election Administrator under the Washington Administrative Code (WAC) and Revised Code of Washington (RCW) regulations is required within two years in this position.
As a condition of employment, the applicant will need to authorize and complete a background check. Information received from the background check is reviewed case-by-case and will not necessarily remove an applicant from consideration.

To be considered for this opportunity please:


Complete and submit an online Pierce County Employment Application by selecting "APPLY" above or go to: www.piercecountywa.org/jobs.
Submit a current resume and cover letter with your application.
If you do not have internet access, you may visit your local public library or any WorkSource location and use their computers.
Individuals needing accommodation in the application, testing process or need this job announcement in an alternative format may call Human Resources at (253) 798-7480, at least two days prior to the need.
This is a competitive selection process. Your application will be reviewed and evaluated for the quality and quantity of education/experience in the areas listed. Applicants whose qualifications most closely correspond to the County's needs will be eligible for further consideration. Notification of application status normally occurs 2 to 3 weeks after the closing date. Short notice may be given to applicants to participate in further selection processes which may include assessments, phone screen, and interviews.
 
At Pierce County, diversity, equity, and inclusion means commitment, not a single step. We strive to foster an inclusive environment that supports equitable access to opportunities throughout your career. We want to recruit, develop, and maintain a talented workforce from various backgrounds, cultures, lifestyles, and perspectives, committed to our vision.   Employees of the County have local, direct, and visible impact in our diverse community. Will you join us in keeping Pierce County a great place to live, work, and raise a family?

Employee benefits are not just about the kind of services you get, they are also about how much you may have to pay out of pocket. Pierce County offers a competitive benefits package that offers flexibility and peace of mind. We are proud to offer Employee Resource Groups, a focus on professional development in our Leadership Training Program, and a County Book Club. We understand that your life revolves around more than just your career and that your priority is making sure that you and your family maintain health and financial security. That's why choice is a key component of our benefits package. We have a selection of health and retirement plans, paid leave, staff training and other compensation benefits that you can mix and match to meet your current and future needs.Our benefits:Vacation (Annual Leave)After approximately six months, employees receive six days of vacation leave. Since we value your experience, the amount of vacation you can accrue increases the longer you work with us. Vacation accrues on a bi-weekly basis for full-time employees as follows:Vacation Accruals:During years 1-3, 12 DaysDuring years 4-7, 16 DaysDuring years 8-13, 20 DaysDuring years 14-18, 23 DaysDuring years 19, 24 DaysDuring years 20, 25 DaysDuring years 21, 26 DaysDuring years 22, 27 DaysDuring years 23, 28 DaysDuring years 24, 29 DaysDuring years 25 & thereafter, 30 DaysA maximum of 45 days may be carried from one year into the next.Pro-Rated for Part-Time based on % of 1.0 FTE.Military Leave:Pierce County has a proud history of supporting the armed forces and provides members of the armed forces with up to 21 days paid military leave per state fiscal year.Holidays:Some full-time employees are entitled to eleven paid holidays as follows:   New Year's Day - January 1Martin Luther King, Jr's birthday - Third Monday in JanuaryPresident's Day - Third Monday in FebruaryMemorial Day - Last Monday in MayJuneteenth - June 19Independence Day - July 4Labor Day - First Monday in SeptemberVeteran's Day - November 11Thanksgiving Day - Fourth Thursday in November & Friday afterChristmas Day - December 25Personal Holidays:Regular full-time and regular part-time employees, and employees occupying limited duration positions, shall also receive two additional paid personal holidays. Paid personal holidays shall only accrue for those employees on County payroll as of January 1 of each year or the first work day following January 1 and must be taken during the calendar year in which it was accrued.Furlough:Some Pierce County employees may be designated to receive 10 "furlough" days per year in lieu of holidays. Furlough days are available for use on January 1 and must be scheduled and taken within the calendar year. Employees who leave employment with Pierce County must reimburse the employer for used furlough days based upon the number of remaining holidays.Sick Leave:Sick leave accrues on a bi-weekly basis, at the rate of one day per month.Insurance Benefits:Employees and families are covered by medical (including vision), dental and basic life insurance.  There are multiple medical plans with very affordable monthly premiums that offer coverage throughout Pierce County.  Employees are eligible to enroll each year in a flexible spending plan, which enables them to use tax-deferred dollars toward their health care and dependent care expenses.  Employees also have the opportunity to participate in supplemental life and long term disability insurance plans.   To view premium rates, summary of benefit coverage, and other information, please visit the Pierce County Health Benefits website.Retirement and Deferred Compensation:Pierce County employees are members of the State of Washington's Department of Retirement System (DRS) and depending on the position or previous DRS enrollment will be able to enroll in one of many programs DRS offers.  For additional information, check out the Department of Retirement Systems' web site.Employees also have the ability to participate in the Nationwide Deferred Compensation Plan.  This is a supplemental retirement savings program  that allows you control over the amount of pre-tax salary dollars you defer as well as the flexibility to choose between multiple investment options.Social Security:All Pierce County employees are covered by the federal Social Security and Medicare systems. The county and the employee pay an equal amount into the system.Miscellaneous Benefits:Please visit Pierce County's Benefits website for more information.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        How did you hear about this opportunity?
        
        
                Pierce County Website
                governmentjobs.com
                Indeed
                LinkedIn
                Glassdoor
                Other Website
                Job Fair
                Pierce County Employee
                Other
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        If you chose Other, Pierce County Employee, or  Other Website, please provide details (name, site, etc).
        
        
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        In lieu of a cover letter and after closely reviewing the job announcement, please describe in your best words why you feel you would be a great candidate for this opportunity.
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        