=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Language Access and Outreach Coordinator (Russian and Somali)
Salary: $34.97 - $44.33 HOUR
Location: WA 98057-2906, WA, WA, 98104
Employer: King County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2022-10-24
Job Type: Career Service, Full Time, 40 hrs/week
Job Number: 2022RL16658
Department: KCE - King County Elections
Division: Election Outreach
Opening Date: 10/24/2022
Closing Date: 1/9/2023 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Non-Exempt
Bargaining Unit: F3A : L117-P&T

BENEFITS:
  • Medical, dental, and vision coverage: King County pays 100% of the premiums for eligible employees and family members
  • Life and disability insurance: employees are provided basic coverage and given the opportunity to purchase additional insurance for both the employee and eligible dependents
  • Retirement: King County employees are eligible to participate in a pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems and a 457(b) deferred-compensation plan
  • Transportation program and ORCA transit pass
  • 12 paid holidays each year (plus 2 personal holidays)
  • Generous vacation and paid sick leave
  • Paid parental leave, family and medical leaves, and volunteer leave
  • Flexible Spending Account
  • Wellness programs
  • Onsite gyms and activity centers
  • Employee giving program
  • Employee assistance programs
  • Flexible schedules and telecommuting options, depending on position
  • Training and career development programs

For additional information about employee benefits please visit our
Benefits, Payroll, and Retirement Page
.
This is a general description of the benefits offered to eligible King County employees, and every effort has been made to ensure its accuracy.  If any information on this document conflicts with the provisions of a collective bargaining agreement (CBA), the CBA prevails.  Also, in the event of any incorrect information in this document, applicable laws, policies, rules, CBAs, or official plan documents will prevail.
NOTE:
Benefits for Term Limited Temporary (TLT) or Short Term Temporary (STT) positions, including leave eligibility and/or participation in the pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems, will vary based upon the terms and details of the position. Short Term Temporary positions are not eligible for an ORCA transit pass.
For inquiries about the specifics of this position, please contact the recruiter identified on this job posting.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

The Department of Elections is searching for energetic and resourceful professionals who like to "get stuff done". The Language Access and Outreach Coordinator position in the Elections Department combines an exciting, fast paced environment with the opportunity to cultivate talents and apply a variety of skills. The ideal candidate will thrive in an innovative, fast-paced environment and will not hesitate to roll up both sleeves, work hard, have fun, and get the job done.

 
The Language Services and Community Engagement Program is recruiting Language Access and Outreach Coordinators who will support the program for the Russian and Somali languages. This position provides bilingual assistance, translation, and community outreach support. These individuals must be able to read, write, understand, and speak Russian or Somali at the language proficiency testing level used by the Department. In addition, as part of the community engagement program, they will participate in voter registration and voter education activities with community partners and provide support to out Voter Education Fund partners. Individuals in this position will provide language access assistance to our communications team and administrative support to other election work groups as needed.
 
Who We Are: King County Elections (KCE) manages voter registration and elections for more than 1.4 million voters in King County and is the largest vote-by-mail county in the United States. KCE's mission is to conduct accessible, secure and accurate elections. As a leader in providing inclusive elections, KCE is focused on three key priorities – (1) actively identifying and working to remove barriers to voting at both the individual and community level, (2) strengthening relationships with community and governmental partners, and (3) creating a culture of professional growth and development, openness and inclusion. Learn more at www.kingcounty.gov/elections.aspx.
 
WHO MAY APPLY:  This position is open to the general public and all King County employees. This position is open until filled.  Applications submitted by November 7th will be part of the first round of review and interviews. 
 
WORK LOCATION: The work associated with this position will be performed through a combination of teleworking complemented with onsite work and meetings as needed. Employees must reside in Washington state and within a reasonable distance to their King County worksite to respond to workplace reporting requirements.

WORK SCHEDULE:  The standard workweek for this full-time position is Monday through Friday, 35 hours per week.  We require the flexibility to work additional hours during peak periods of the election cycle.  This position is non-exempt according to the Fair Labor Standards Act and is eligible for overtime pay.

REQUIRED MATERIALS:  A resume and cover letter are required and should be attached before submitting your application.  The cover letter should describe how your skills and experience meet or exceed the requirements of the job.  Applications without the required materials may not be considered for this position.  Please make sure to address the following in your resume and/or cover letter:

Complete work history, including work done outside of the U.S.
Example of types of documents translated (for example, technical writing, court documents, advertisements, etc.).
Community engagement and outreach, including volunteer, activism, social clubs, religious communities.
Please make sure to answer the supplemental questions in detail.

1.  Translation:



Translate and/or proof election-related materials from English to Russian or English to Somali, including but not limited to: letters, general correspondence, web, notice of elections, ballots, and voters' pamphlet including candidate statements and ballot measures. 
Review, edit and proofread all translated documents produced by translation vendors and others, for accuracy, clarity, and consistency. 
Provide oversight of temporary translators and language counterparts which includes distribution of workload, providing direction and training, and monitor the quality and completion of work in order to meet tight deadlines. 
Improve work processes, address quality control issues, and document procedures.
Research and summarize specialized or technical information from varied sources. This may require selecting the most appropriate material and the use of spreadsheets and customized database applications.

2.  Outreach & Community Engagement:


Support the work of Voter Education Grantees, including regular check-in meetings, providing presentation on voter registration and voter education, event planning, and translation.
Participate in the review and implementation processes of the Voter Education Fund. 
Provide voter education and voter registration support to community partners and assist in managing Voter Education Fund
Coordinate initiatives and participate in outreach events designed to promote the organization, its resources and services to the community. 
Provide presentations and trainings to voters and community partners on election related topics in English and Russian or English and Somali. 
Collaborate on community research project to improve voter education and outreach.

3.  Customer Service:


Provide bilingual assistance to the public in a professional setting to facilitate communications across language and cultural barriers, specifically answering inquiries from Russian or Somali language voters. 
Handle sensitive and/or potentially challenging customer service situations in Russian or Somali and English. 
Provide back up support to Elections Voter Services Division, which may include providing customer service to voters, processing voter registrations or explaining election procedures, guidelines and regulations.
Provide established policies, procedures, codes, regulations, and other relevant sources, in English and Russian or English and Somali, to internal and/or external customers in writing, in-person or by telephone. Research and resolve questions, problems, or inquiries from voters, staff, public and/or stakeholders.



Experience and skill in translation of documents from English to Russian or English to Somali.
Experience working or volunteering with community and nonprofit organizations, either in the United States or abroad. 
High level of language proficiency to include interpreting, translation, reading, writing and speaking in both English and Russian or English and Somali. (Candidates will be tested to determine translation skills and language proficiency.) 
Office and computer skills including the use of Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and Outlook. 
Ability to work under pressure and meet strict deadlines. 
Ability to work both independently and as a member of a team. 
Ability to organize work assignments, set priorities, and follow through on work assignments. 
Ability to effectively engage in and sustain relationships with people from diverse cultures and socio-economic backgrounds. 
Ability to speak in public and deliver presentations to different audiences.
WE WOULD LOVE IT IF YOU HAVE:


Working knowledge of community organizations, agencies and groups serving Russian or Somali speaking communities in King County. 
Elections knowledge and experience. 
Working knowledge of InDesign and CAT tools such as TRADOS.

Travel to work locations throughout King County with limited or no public transportation services is required. A valid Washington State Driver's License is required to operate King County vehicles.
 
PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS: The duties in this position are performed in an office setting and may be required to lift at least 25 pounds.
 
UNION: This position is represented by Teamsters Local 117, Professional and Technical union.  
 
CLASSIFICATION TITLE:  Language Services Specialist II - Elections

Temporary Telecommuting Requirement 
The work associated with this position will be performed through a combination of teleworking complemented with onsite work and meetings as needed. Employees must reside in Washington state and within a reasonable distance to their King County worksite to respond to workplace reporting requirements.
 
Employees will be provided with a County issued laptop and must maintain a workspace with an internet connection (access may be supplemented in some situations) where they can reliably perform work and remain available and responsive during scheduled work hours. Please note that when an employee conducts work that is likely to bring them in contact with another individual, safety precautions are required, including the wearing of masks in some situations. King County is doing its part to reduce the spread of COVID-19 and remains committed to reducing our carbon footprint.
   
King County has a robust collection of tools and resources to support working remotely. The individual selected for this opportunity will be joining an innovative and progressive team that is redefining how we work as we transition to the department's hybrid environment.  
   
Forbes recently named King County as one of Washington State's best employers.
            
Together, with leadership and our employees, we're changing the way government delivers service and winning national recognition as a model of excellence. Are you ready to make a difference? Come join the team dedicated to serving one of the nation's best places to live, work and play.
   
Guided by our "True North", we are making King County a welcoming community where every person can thrive. We value diversity, inclusion and belonging in our workplace and workforce. To reach this goal we are committed to workforce equity. Equitable recruiting, support, and retention is how we will obtain the highest quality workforce in our region; a workforce that shares and will help advance our guiding principles--we are one team; we solve problems; we focus on the customer; we drive for results; we are racially just; we respect all people; we lead the way; and we are responsible stewards. We encourage people of all backgrounds and identities to apply, including Native American and people of color, immigrants, refugees, women, LGBTQ+, people living with disabilities, and veterans.
 
Covid-19 Vaccination Requirement
 
King County Executive Branch employees are required to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. If you are the successful candidate for the position you applied for, the County will send you a conditional offer letter.
 
As a condition of employment, prior to a final offer of employment, you will be required to:


submit proof of vaccination or
have an approved request for medical or religious exemption and an approved accommodation. Philosophical, political, scientific, or sociological objections to vaccination will not be considered for an exemption or accommodation.
People are considered fully vaccinated against COVID-19 two weeks after receiving the final dose of a vaccination approved by the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
 
The Executive Branch includes employees in the Executive branch, the Assessor’s Office, Elections, the King County Sheriff’s Office, and the Executive Office.
    
King County is an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Employer
No person is unlawfully excluded from employment opportunities based on race, color, religion, national origin, sex (including gender identity, sexual orientation and pregnancy), age, genetic information, disability, veteran status, or other protected class. Our EEO policy applies to all employment actions, including but not limited to recruitment, hiring, selection for training, promotion, transfer, demotion, layoff, termination, rates of pay or other forms of compensation.
 
To Apply 
If you are interested in pursuing this position, please follow the application instructions carefully. If you need this announcement in an alternate language or format, would like to request accommodation or assistance in the application or assessment process or if you have questions please contact your recruiter listed on this job announcement.
 
 For more information regarding this recruitment, please contact:  
 Reeshema Lewis
 Sr. HR Business Partner
 Email:  Reeshema.Lewis@kingcounty.gov