=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Senior Graphic Designer
Salary: $74,484.80 - $94,411.20 YEAR
Location: WA 98057-2906, WA, WA, 98104
Employer: King County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2022-11-21
Job Type: Career Service, Full Time, 40 hrs/week
Job Number: 2022RL17437
Department: KCE - King County Elections
Division: Administration
Opening Date: 11/21/2022
Closing Date: 12/12/2022 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Exempt
Bargaining Unit: Z3 : KC Personnel Guidelines

BENEFITS:
  • Medical, dental, and vision coverage: King County pays 100% of the premiums for eligible employees and family members
  • Life and disability insurance: employees are provided basic coverage and given the opportunity to purchase additional insurance for both the employee and eligible dependents
  • Retirement: King County employees are eligible to participate in a pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems and a 457(b) deferred-compensation plan
  • Transportation program and ORCA transit pass
  • 12 paid holidays each year (plus 2 personal holidays)
  • Generous vacation and paid sick leave
  • Paid parental leave, family and medical leaves, and volunteer leave
  • Flexible Spending Account
  • Wellness programs
  • Onsite gyms and activity centers
  • Employee giving program
  • Employee assistance programs
  • Flexible schedules and telecommuting options, depending on position
  • Training and career development programs

For additional information about employee benefits please visit our
Benefits, Payroll, and Retirement Page
.
This is a general description of the benefits offered to eligible King County employees, and every effort has been made to ensure its accuracy.  If any information on this document conflicts with the provisions of a collective bargaining agreement (CBA), the CBA prevails.  Also, in the event of any incorrect information in this document, applicable laws, policies, rules, CBAs, or official plan documents will prevail.
NOTE:
Benefits for Term Limited Temporary (TLT) or Short Term Temporary (STT) positions, including leave eligibility and/or participation in the pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems, will vary based upon the terms and details of the position. Short Term Temporary positions are not eligible for an ORCA transit pass.
For inquiries about the specifics of this position, please contact the recruiter identified on this job posting.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

This is an amazing opportunity to be engaged in the election process! 


The Department of Elections is searching for an energetic and resourceful professional who likes to get stuff done. The Senior Graphic Designer in the Elections Department combines an exciting environment with the opportunity to cultivate talents and apply a variety of skills. The ideal candidate will thrive in an innovative, fast-paced environment and will not hesitate to roll up both sleeves, work hard, have fun, and get the job done.
 
The Senior Graphic Designer will lead the design and production of a wide variety of election materials, including the voters’ pamphlet, social media and advertising content, infographics, educational brochures, and more.  This position blends laying out straightforward and easy-to-understand government documents and publications, with opportunities to inject fun, creativity, and innovation into voter education materials and all things elections.

This position reports to the Communications Lead. The Senior Graphic Designer will work with members of every workgroup in the department to support election operations and provide reliable and easy-to-understand information to voters. This position will also work closely with the department’s Language Services & Community Outreach team to produce materials in Chinese, Korean, Russian, Spanish, Somali, and Vietnamese.

The ideal candidate for this position will be creative, detail-oriented, experienced in designing engaging visuals to break down complex information, and ready to collaborate with a team of election administrators, community outreach specialists, and communications professionals.
 
Who We Are: King County Elections (KCE) manages voter registrations and elections for the nearly 1.4 million voters in King County, the largest vote-by-mail county in the United States. KCE's mission is to conduct fair, open and accurate elections.  As a leader in providing inclusive elections, KCE is focused on three key priorities – (1) actively identifying and working to remove barriers to voting at both the individual and community level, (2) strengthening relationships with community and governmental partners, and (3) creating a culture of professional growth and development, openness and inclusion. Learn more at www.kingcounty.gov/elections
 
Who May Apply:  This position is open to the general public and all King County employees.
 
Required Application Materials: Applicants must submit a (1) King County Application, (2) resume, (3) letter of interest, and (4) at least 2 recent, relevant graphic work samples (excerpts from longer documents are acceptable). The letter of interest should describe how your education and experience meet the qualifications and have prepared you to perform the essential functions of the job. Applications without the required materials may not be considered for this position.
 
Work Schedule: The workweek is typically 40 hours per week, Monday through Friday. Mandatory overtime (including weekends or evenings) will be required during elections and other peak work periods. This position is exempt from the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act and is therefore not eligible for overtime.

Coordinate and layout the local voters' pamphlet.
Design and produce a broad range of communication materials such as reports, brochures, social media graphics, signs, posters, and other educational and get-out-the-vote items.
Collaborate with all workgroups to produce election operation materials such as envelopes, ballot packet inserts, forms, mailings, signs, and more.
Produce advertising to support various voter education campaigns and programs. 
Manage design-related services provided by external vendors. 
Develop and maintain graphic standards and provide technical assistance to staff.
Work closely with Language Services & Community Outreach team to produce translated versions of materials.

Strong understanding of Adobe Creative Cloud (InDesign, Photoshop, and Illustrator). 
Ability to learn and apply new technologies quickly. 
Ability to work under pressure, meet deadlines, organize work assignments, and set priorities. 
Skill in managing projects, as well as incorporating and balancing feedback from a variety of sources.
A desire to help deliver reliable, accurate information about elections to voters of all backgrounds.
Ability to be an effective team player with positive attitude and collaborative mindset. 
Skill in taking and editing photos for communication materials and social media. 
Understanding of graphic design principles, best practices, and the techniques of publishing and layout for visual communications, including current graphic design trends.

WE'D LOVE IT IF YOU HAD:

Experience shooting and editing video for digital platforms. 
Experience with animated video or other audio/video mediums.
Skill in developing and updating websites and online content. 
The ability to provide rudimentary back-up for other communications functions, such as monitoring social media accounts.    



Travel to work locations throughout King County with limited or no public transportation services is required. A valid Washington State Driver's License is required to operate King County vehicles.

This position is not represented by a union.
 
Temporary Telecommuting Requirement 
The work associated with this position will be performed through a combination of teleworking complemented with onsite work and meetings as needed.  Employees must reside in Washington state and within a reasonable distance to their King County worksite to respond to workplace reporting requirements.
 
Employees will be provided with a County issued laptop and must maintain a workspace with an internet connection (access may be supplemented in some situations) where they can reliably perform work and remain available and responsive during scheduled work hours. Please note that when an employee conducts work that is likely to bring them in contact with another individual, safety precautions are required, including the wearing of masks in some situations. King County is doing its part to reduce the spread of COVID-19 and remains committed to reducing our carbon footprint.
   
King County has a robust collection of tools and resources to support working remotely. The individual selected for this opportunity will be joining an innovative and progressive team that is redefining how we work as we transition to the department's hybrid environment.  
   
Forbes recently named King County as one of Washington State's best employers.
         
Together, with leadership and our employees, we're changing the way government delivers service and winning national recognition as a model of excellence. Are you ready to make a difference? Come join the team dedicated to serving one of the nation's best places to live, work and play.
   
Guided by our "True North", we are making King County a welcoming community where every person can thrive. We value diversity, inclusion and belonging in our workplace and workforce. To reach this goal we are committed to workforce equity. Equitable recruiting, support, and retention is how we will obtain the highest quality workforce in our region; a workforce that shares and will help advance our guiding principles--we are one team; we solve problems; we focus on the customer; we drive for results; we are racially just; we respect all people; we lead the way; and we are responsible stewards. We encourage people of all backgrounds and identities to apply, including Native American and people of color, immigrants, refugees, women, LGBTQ+, people living with disabilities, and veterans.
   
King County is an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Employer
No person is unlawfully excluded from employment opportunities based on race, color, religion, national origin, sex (including gender identity, sexual orientation and pregnancy), age, genetic information, disability, veteran status, or other protected class. Our EEO policy applies to all employment actions, including but not limited to recruitment, hiring, selection for training, promotion, transfer, demotion, layoff, termination, rates of pay or other forms of compensation.
 
   For more information regarding this recruitment, please contact: 
   Reeshema Lewis
   Sr. Human Resources Analyst
   Reeshema.Lewis@kingcounty.gov