- County Home
- Departments & Offices
- Departments & Offices E-Z
- Human Resources
Human Resources Department
Overview
The Human Resources Department's mission is to support each County department in providing services to our community by attracting and retaining a highly skilled and diversified workforce that is fairly compensated and rewarded for its efforts in an equitable and responsible work environment. Human Resources is comprised of four program areas: Administration, Employee Benefits, Talent and Development (previously Personnel Services), and Human Resources Systems Management.
Administration
Administration develops, administers, and monitors the annual budget, general purchasing, countywide contracts, and accounts payable and accounts receivable activities. It formulates countywide Human Resources policies and procedures, consults on Human Resources and Merit Board issues, administers countywide contracted temporary workers, and manages the preemployment fingerprinting and I-9 processes.
Employee Benefits
Employee Benefits administers competitive benefit programs and services that contribute to the health and wellbeing of County employees and retirees. The mix of insured and self-insured programs include Medical, Dental, and Vision Insurance, State Disability Insurance, 457(b) Deferred Compensation Plan, Health Care Spending Account, Health Savings Account, Supplemental Life Insurance, Unemployment Insurance, Dependent Care Assistance Program, CVC Eye Screening Program, and the Employee Assistance Program. ADA Program and Leaves of Absence Program management provide guidance, support and training to departments on the variety of laws which govern their use.
Talent and Development
Talent and Development provides innovative, responsive, fair, and consistent recruitment and selection services to departments, employees, and job applicants to ensure that the County employs, develops, and retains a qualified and diverse workforce that delivers essential services to the public. Additionally, T&D creates, promotes and fosters individual and organizational effectiveness for employees by developing and offering an array of innovative and diverse programs in support of the County’s commitment to employee development and organizational enrichment. Services include recruitment and assessment, classification and compensation, training, professional and organizational development, and departmental consulting for staffing, hiring needs and organizational planning.
Human Resources System Management
Human Resources Systems Management is responsible for the development, implementation, integration, and maintenance of all County Human Resources information systems including PeopleSoft and NEOGOV. They also ensure the efficient and accurate processing of personnel transactions, recordkeeping, salary tables, benefits, applicant tracking, and other related human resource functions and support data analytics. The prime objective is to take full advantage of available technology in order to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of Human Resources operations.