=== JOB DETAILS ===

Salary: $15.70 - $21.02 Hourly
Location: Salem, OR
Job Type: Full-time Regular
Job Number: 042-2019-1
Department: Clerk's Office
Division: Elections
Opening Date: 01/18/2019
Closing Date: 2/4/2019 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Non-Exempt
Bargaining Unit: 06

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

GENERAL STATEMENT OF DUTIES 
Performs a wide variety of specialized clerical duties related to voter registration file maintenance, preparation for, and conduction of elections in a non-partisan manner. Prioritize and manage multiple tasks in compliance with state and federal laws, rules, and regulations and at the direction of the Elections and Recording Manager.
 
SUPERVISION RECEIVED 
Works under the supervision of the Elections and Recording Manager who assigns work, sets goals and reviews work for accuracy and conformance to department standards and who provides guidance for independent judgment and decision making in accordance with laws, rules, and regulations.
 
SUPERVISION EXERCISED 
Supervision of other employees is not a responsibility of positions in this class; however, may exercise lead direction, managing and training over temporary employees and election board workers as required to carry out assignments of established goals and objectives.

Maintains Marion County voter registration files including active, inactive, pending and canceled.  Enters registration data into statewide registration system.  Proofreads and edits data entered.  Implements and maintains procedures related to voter eligibility.
Receives, reviews, processes, and files Candidacy filings, Voter Pamphlet filings, and Initiative, Referendum and Recall petitions.
Understands addressing library, which assigns voting jurisdictions according to residence address.  Assists with jurisdictional mapping.
Compiles, evaluates statistics, and prepares concise reports for special districts, campaigns, etc.
Provides training to temporary staff and election board workers.
Assists in the implementation of the National Voter Registration Act of 1998 (NVRA) and Help America Vote Act of 2005.  This includes coordinating agency-based registration with 30 agencies in Marion County; maintaining accountability for each registration card received into the election office; compiles data and prepares concise reports used by the federal government; prepares procedures and directs the issuing of ballots in the election office according to UOCAUA, NVRA and HAVA regulations.
Processes and maintains absentee requests and files.  Files include military, long-term, over-seas, snow birds, students, temporary and permanents.  Responsible for absentee correspondence, ballot requests and mailings.
Assists in receiving, processing and managing returned Vote by Mail ballots, including voted and undeliverable.
Directs customer service with general public.
Interprets statutes relating to all phases of elections.
Assists in administration of elections as assigned and needed.
Back up staff in Licensing and Recording

Marion County offers a generous benefits package to regular employees working 50% or more of the regularly scheduled work week and their eligible dependents.  Temporary employees and part-time regular employees working less than 50% of the regularly scheduled work week are not eligible for benefits. Most regular positions in this classification are represented by Marion County Employees Association (MCEA).   For a summary of benefits, click here (Download PDF reader).  For a complete and detailed overview of the MCEA benefits package, click here, and select MCEA Benefits from the left menu or Marion County Employees Association (MCEA) from the page links.  Regular and temporary employees are represented by MCEA.Salary and benefits are subject to union contract negotiations and may change as a result.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        All Recruitments:  In order to receive credit for your supplemental questions, your answers must be supported by details in the education and/or work experience section of your application form.   Do you understand this statement?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        What is the highest level of education you have successfully completed?
        
        
                GED
                High school
                At least 1 year of college (31 semester or 45 quarter credits)
                Associate degree (62 semester or 90 quarter credits)
                At least 3 years of college (93 semester or 135 quarter credits)
                Bachelor's degree (124 semester or 180 quarter credits)
                Master's degree (155 semester or 225 quarter credits)
                Doctorate degree (186 semester or 270 quarter credits)
                None of the above
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Indicate how many years of full-time, progressively responsible office work experience you have.  (One year of work experience is equal to 2080 hours.)
        
        
                Less than 1 year
                1 year to less than 2 years
                2 years to less than 3 years
                3 years to less than 4 years
                4 years to less than 5 years
                5 years to less than 6 years
                6 years to less than 7 years
                7 years to less than 8 years
                8 years to less than 9 years
                9 years to less than 10 years
                10 years or more
                None of the above
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Indicate how many years of full-time work experience you have in an election-related environment.  (One year of work experience is equal to 2080 hours.)
        
        
                Less than 6 months
                6 months to less than 1 year
                1 year to less than 5 years
                5 years or more
                None of the above
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Please specify where you gained the work experience listed in questions 4 and 5 above.  Include place of employment, the number of hours worked per week, and length of employment. Write NA in the box if this question does not apply to you.  Experience listed in this answer must be supported by the education and/or work experience in your application.  "See resume" is not an acceptable answer.
        
        
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Select the computer software with which you are proficient and with which you have at least 1 year of full-time work experience.
        
        
                Microsoft Word
                Microsoft Excel
                Microsoft Publisher
                Microsoft PowerPoint
                Microsoft Access
                Microsoft Outlook
                Groupwise E-mail
                Groupwise Calendar
                Laserfiche
                Adobe InDesign
                Other (Specify in next question)
                None of the above
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        List any software (not listed in the previous question) with which you are proficient. Write NA in the box if this question does not apply to you.  Experience listed in this answer must be supported by the education and/or work experience in your application.  "See resume" is not an acceptable answer.
        
        
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Select the job duties with which you have experience.  NOTE:  Your answer must be supported by details in the work experience section of your application.
        
        
                Answering Phones
                Greeting and assisting walk-in customers
                Creating and/or editing documents in Microsoft Word or similar software
                Creating and/or editing spreadsheets in Microsoft Excel or similar software
                Entering information into a database
                Retrieving information from a database
                Opening and/or distributing mail
                Maintaining electronic files
                Maintaining paper files
                Scanning paper files into electronic system
                Drafting correspondence
                None of the above
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        Describe additional skills and experiences that you feel will help you in performing the duties required in this position.
        
        
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        Describe the working environment in which you are most productive and explain why.
        
        
        
    


    
        

11

    

    
        Describe the working environment in which you are least productive and explain why.
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        