=== JOB DETAILS ===

Salary: $21.68 - $29.02 Hourly
Location: Salem, OR
Job Type: Full-time Regular
Job Number: 650-2019-1
Department: Clerk - Elections
Opening Date: 01/18/2019
Closing Date: 2/4/2019 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Non-Exempt
Bargaining Unit: 08

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

GENERAL STATEMENT OF DUTIES
Journey level classification of the Information Services series, which applies specialized knowledge in department wide, multiple software applications; conducts training sessions; assists in design of systems and applications, and recommend policy or procedural changes to ensure effectiveness and efficiency of systems; provides technical assistance in and facilitates the use of computer hardware and software for a department; and performs related work as required. 
 
SUPERVISION RECEIVED
Works under the general supervision of the Elections and Recording Manager who assigns work, establishes goals, and reviews work for conformance to technical standards and compliance with department goals.
 
SUPERVISION EXERCISED
Supervision of other employees is not a responsibility of positions in this classification; however, may exercise lead direction over other technical or clerical staff.

Provide technical assistance to three divisions of the Clerk's Department: Elections, Recording and Board of Property Tax Appeal (BOPTA); assists users with problems, tracks program area problems and monitors system for efficiency and effectiveness; recommends procedural changes, hardware and/or software changes or enhancements; answers a variety of routine and complex computer related questions from users; researches and recommends the purchase of hardware and software; tests new software before implementation; installs computer software upgrades, performs some hardware maintenance and writes and maintains user documentation.  Development, enhancements and updates to web sites for entire Clerk's Department (three divisions).
Programing, training and testing of proprietary election ballot software and maintenance, testing and operation of computer vote tally system.  Production and printing of ballots and voter pamphlets.
Greeting public, phone and counter work, interprets election laws and rules for candidates, campaigns and the public, assists in voter registration file maintenance. Other tasks as assigned.
Electoral/Special districts mapping.
Assists candidates, campaign, districts and in office file maintenance with OCVR reports, queries files to produce special reports in office.

Marion County offers a generous benefits package to regular employees working 50% or more of the regularly scheduled work week and their eligible dependents.  Temporary employees and part-time regular employees working less than 50% of the regularly scheduled work week are not eligible for benefits. Most regular positions in this classification are represented by Marion County Employees Association (MCEA).   For a summary of benefits, click here (Download PDF reader).  For a complete and detailed overview of the MCEA benefits package, click here, and select MCEA Benefits from the left menu or Marion County Employees Association (MCEA) from the page links.  Regular and temporary employees are represented by MCEA.Salary and benefits are subject to union contract negotiations and may change as a result.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        In order to receive credit for your supplemental questions, your answers must be supported by details in the education and/or work experience section of your application form.  Do you understand this statement?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        What is the highest level of education you have successfully completed?
        
        
                GED
                High school
                At least 1 year of college (31 semester or 45 quarter credits)
                Associate degree (62 semester or 90 quarter credits)
                At least 3 years of college (93 semester or 135 quarter credits)
                Bachelor's degree (124 semester or 180 quarter credits)
                Master's degree (155 semester or 225 quarter credits)
                Doctorate degree (186 semester or 270 quarter credits)
                None of the above
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Indicate area of study for college education.
        
        
                Computer Science
                An area related to Computer Science (please specify below)
                None of the above
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Please specify where you gained the education level listed above.  Include school name, area of study, number of credits earned, and whether they were semester or quarter credits. Write NA in the box if this question does not apply to you.  Experience listed in this answer must be supported by the education and/or work experience in your application.  "See resume" is not an acceptable answer.
        
        
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Indicate how many years of full-time work experience you have in computer applications related to elections.  (One year of work experience is equal to 2080 hours.)
        
        
                Less than 1 year
                1 year to less than 2 years
                2 years to less than 3 years
                3 or more years
                None of the above
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Please specify where you gained the work experience listed above.  Include place of employment, the number of hours worked per week, and length of employment. Write NA in the box if this question does not apply to you.  Experience listed in this answer must be supported by the education and/or work experience in your application.  "See resume" is not an acceptable answer.
        
        
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Select the computer software with which you are proficient.
        
        
                Microsoft Word
                Microsoft Excel
                Microsoft Publisher
                Microsoft PowerPoint
                Microsoft Access
                Microsoft Outlook
                Groupwise E-mail
                Groupwise Calendar
                Laserfiche
                Adobe InDesign
                Other (Specify in next question)
                None of the above
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        List any software (not listed in the previous question) with which you are proficient. Write NA in the box if this question does not apply to you.  Experience listed in this answer must be supported by the education and/or work experience in your application.  "See resume" is not an acceptable answer.
        
        
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        Describe the working environment in which you are most productive and explain why.
        
        
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        Describe the working environment in which you are least productive and explain why.
        
        
        
    


    
        

11

    

    
        Describe any additional skills and experiences that you feel will help you in performing the duties required in this position.
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        