=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Absentee Coordinator
Salary: $50,587.94 - $89,022.44 YEAR
Location: Alexandria, VA, VA, 22314
Employer: City of Alexandria
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2023-08-20
Job Type: Full-Time
Job Number: 2024-00078
Department: Voter Registration & Elections
Division: Administration
Opening Date: 08/21/2023
Closing Date: 9/4/2023 11:59 PM Eastern
Bargaining Unit: N/A

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===





Absentee Coordinator


Overview: 
The Absentee Coordinator’s primary purpose is to plan, coordinate, and administer the absentee by-mail program/service area to support the strategic direction of the department by connecting community participants to election services. An employee in this position is responsible for the management of all aspects of processing mail/email absentee applications and ballot issuance in accordance with strict deadlines established by federal and state election laws as well as oversee the Central Absentee Precinct. This employee will lead a team to perform the administrative duties related to absentee by-mail voting. Work requires that all materials meet the guidelines of election law and department standards.
 
What you should bring: 
The ideal candidate will be a detail-oriented professional with strong communication skills. Along with the ability to: 
Regularly work well under pressure, meeting multiple deadlines.
Answer inquiries independently and stay current with election law and administration.
Follow complex oral and written instructions.
Effectively plan and manage time. 
Communicate effectively in person, through email and by telephone with poll workers, co-workers, and vendors.
Establish and maintain effective working relationships in fluid teams as necessitated by work assignments.
Use different training methods for diverse groups of people of varying ages and technological capability.
Be cross trained to assist with other day-to-day operations. 
 
The Opportunity and Key responsibilities 
Responsible for determining the status and qualification of absentee voters. 
Assist in recruitment of staff, hiring, and training staff as it relates to absentee by mail voting.
Supports the General Registrar and Election Manager with the inventory of all absentee mail supplies and assists with future projections for supply/absentee infrastructure needs including postage.
Oversees all absentee by mail processes including database management, chain of custody, mailing services.
Oversees the Central Absentee Precinct (CAP).
Reviews, tracks, and reports on status of absentee ballot processing and preparation for tabulation
Serve as the point of contact for the by-mail printing and distribution vendor. 
Develop content, materials, and necessary supporting documentation for use in CAP.
Identifies opportunities for improving service delivery methods and procedures; identifies resource needs; implements improvements.
Adapts quickly and effectively in a dynamic work environment; requires sensitivity to change and responsiveness to changing goals, priorities, and needs.
Requires being dependable, organized, focused, and excellent follow-through.
Performs other related work as required. 
 
About the Department
The Office of Voter Registration & Elections is dedicated to the non-partisan administration of all federal, state, and local elections within the City of Alexandria, while upholding the office’s standards of Integrity, Neutrality, Transparency and Accuracy. 

High School Diploma or GED, and 3 years of relevant experience; or any equivalent combination of experience and training which provides the required knowledge, skills and abilities. Must be a registered voter in the Commonwealth of Virginia.

Bachelor's degree in Public Administration, Public Policy or related field and 3 years of experience in elections administration. Flexibility to work nights and weekends as needed.  

This position requires successful completion of a pre-employment criminal background check including but not limited to a criminal background check.  The selection process for this position may include a phone or virtual interview and an in-person interview.

The City of Alexandria is an Equal Opportunity Employer and values diversity in its workforce. All qualified candidates will receive consideration without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, personal appearance, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, family responsibilities, matriculation, political affiliation, genetic information, military status, or disability. 

We are proud to welcome you to explore the City of Alexandria's excellent benefits and programs!Click here to learn more about Employee BenefitsClick here to learn more about the City's Employee Development ProgramThe benefits referenced on this site, may be changed from time to time without notice. Also, temporary and some part-time positions are not eligible for these benefits. For further information, please contact the Benefits Division of the Department of Human Resources at 703.746.3785 or email DHR.Benefits@alexandriava.gov .


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Do you have at least a high school diploma and GED and 3 years of relevant experience, or any equivalent combination of experience and training which provides the knowledge, skills and abilities?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Are you a registered voter of the Commonwealth of Virginia?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Are you willing and able to work nights and weekends as needed?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Do you have a bachelor's degree in Public Administration, Public Policy or related field?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Do you have at least 3 years of experience in elections administration?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        