The EAC is an independent, bipartisan agency created by the Help America Vote Act (HAVA) of 2002. We assist and guide state and local election officials in improving the administration of elections for Federal office.
The EAC is an independent, bipartisan agency created by the Help America Vote Act (HAVA) of 2002. We assist and guide state and local election officials in improving the administration of elections for Federal office.
The EAC disperses Federal funds to states to implement HAVA requirements, audits the use of HAVA funds, adopts the Voluntary Voting System Guidelines (VVSG), conducts election-related research and serves as a national clearinghouse and resource of information regarding election administration and implements changes to the mail-in voter registration application authorized by the National Voter Registration Act (NVRA). The EAC also accredits testing laboratories and certifies, decertifies, and recertifies voting systems.
Major Duties
The U.S. Election Assistance Commission (EAC) is looking for a seasoned manager to serve as Chief Operating Officer (COO). This is an exceptional opportunity for an individual to oversee the functions and programs of the Commission coming up to the 2020 Elections! The COO is the primary management official responsible for supervising the day-to-day operations of EAC staff. EAC has several program operation divisions which will report to the COO: Voting Systems Testing and Certification, Grants, Research, Communications, HR/Administration, and Finance.
Plans and implements communications plans, events, media campaigns, press conferences, briefings, messaging and interviews. Participates in developing communications and media initiatives, planning and implementing of media events, and maintaining a proactive media strategy for the EAC.
Under the leadership of the Executive Director, EAC is elevating attention on management issues and transformational change. To manage this change, and to enable the Executive Director to focus attention on Congressional affairs, external relations, budget formulation and execution, and clearinghouse activities, the COO position was created to manage the programmatic, financial management, and administrative functions of the Commission, all of which will continue to be directed by talented professionals with strong expertise in their areas of responsibility. The COO will have special responsibility for supervising senior staff, ensuring that key program areas work in a carefully coordinated way, as well as ensuring that new systems and procedures are effectively adopted whenever such change is required to support the Commission's transformation and improvement.
Under the overall direction of the Executive Director, the COO is responsible for:
Candidates must be a US Citizen.
Candidates must meet all qualifications prior to the closing date of this announcement.
This job does not have an education qualification requirement.
You will be evaluated for this job based on how well you meet the qualifications above.
Please read the "Next steps" section.
Required documents include a resume and the supporting documents as described in the "How to Apply Instructions" section of this announcement.
All applicants MUST submit applications via email: resumes@eac.gov.
You do not need to submit your application package through the USAJOBS process.
Your application package must be received by the closing date of the announcement and must include the following:
Your application materials will be reviewed and if an interview is deemed appropriate, you will be contacted with further information.
The Federal hiring process is set up to be fair and transparent. Please read the following guidance.