As the Deputy Chief Information Security Officer (Deputy CISO), the incumbent provides policy, leadership and direction, and serves as a key contributor to the EAC's strategy regarding achieving mission goals; ensuring that all IT functions are integrated, prioritized and executed within agency priorities and allocated resources; and working closely with EAC's service providers.
As the Deputy Chief Information Security Officer (Deputy CISO), the incumbent provides policy, leadership and direction, and serves as a key contributor to the EAC's strategy regarding achieving mission goals; ensuring that all IT functions are integrated, prioritized and executed within agency priorities and allocated resources; and working closely with EAC's service providers.
This job requires a Public Trust background investigation.
The incumbent furthers the EAC's efforts in various arenas; works to improve federal, state and local relations with regard to elections; and provides strategic guidance to senior staff on various issues pertaining to elections and specifically, election security.
Duties may include but are not limited to the following:
Candidates must be a US Citizen.
Candidates must meet all qualifications prior to the closing date of this announcement.
Preference given to those applicants with Federal experience, elections experience and CISSP Certification.
Must have at least 10 years of experience in cybersecurity; experience with National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) controls.
Prospective candidates should have a good understanding of non-voting equipment technology.
TECHNICAL COMPETENCIES
Demonstrated experience and knowledge of cyber security technology and operations, to include comprehensive risk management and compliance programs. Experience in identifying and applying best practices in cybersecurity, acquisition of technology, and the relevant policies, procedures, practices and principles necessary to ensure successful delivery of IT investments.
This job does not have an education qualification requirement.
You will be evaluated for this job based on how well you meet the qualifications above.
LEADERSHIP COMPETENCIES
Skill in leading staff to interact as a team, focused on cooperating with one another and with the entire EAC staff to accomplish team goals and initiatives. Ability to plan, assign, and appraise work products to assure high levels of performance.
Skill in consensus building and conflict management to effectively resolve conflicts.
Knowledge of the tools available to facilitate managing the work and skill in applying that knowledge to such responsibilities as maintaining records, assuring adequate resources, supplies, and equipment to accomplish the work, identifying and implementing ways to improve effectiveness and efficiency, formulating budget requests, and similar managerial functions.
Knowledge of basic human resource management programs, rules, policies, and procedures to effectively carry out supervisory responsibilities such as interviewing and recommending selections, developing performance standards and appraising subordinate performance, identifying training needs and arranging for appropriate training for staff, resolving grievances and complaints, and effectively managing disciplinary issues.
GENERAL COMPETENCIES
Interpersonal Effectiveness: Skill in responding appropriately to a diversity of groups and individuals in a variety of challenging situations. Demonstrated ability to be tactful and to treat others with respect. Skill in developing networks, achieving cooperation, and collaborating with others when appropriate.
Critical Thinking: Skill in purposeful, self-regulatory judgment that results in interpretation, analysis, and evaluation of all relevant considerations while remaining flexible, fair-minded in evaluation, prudent in making judgments, diligent in seeking relevant information, and persistent in seeking results.
Influencing/Negotiating: Skill in influencing others to accept and implement recommendations and in building consensus. Ability to effectively resolve significant or controversial issues.
Written and Oral Communication: Demonstrated ability to clearly, succinctly and convincingly express facts and ideas both in writing and orally. Skill in listening and appropriately responding to the ideas, points of view, or concerns of others.
External Awareness: Skill in identifying and keeping abreast of legislation, policies and economic, political, and social trends that affect the EAC.
Required documents include a resume and the supporting documents as described in the "How to Apply Instructions" section of this announcement.
All applicants MUST submit applications via email: resumes@eac.gov.
You MUST include the job title and announcement number in the subject line of the email. You do not need to submit your application package through the USAJOBS process.
Your application package must be received by the closing date of the announcement and must include the following:
Your application materials will be reviewed and if an interview is deemed appropriate, you will be contacted with further information.
The Federal hiring process is set up to be fair and transparent. Please read the following guidance.