=== JOB DETAILS ===

Salary: $59,404.00 - $89,119.00 Annually
Location: Corvallis, OR
Job Type: Permanent Full-time (01)
Job Number: 20-019
Department: Records & Elections
Division: MANAGEMENT & CONFIDENTIAL
Opening Date: 02/03/2020
Closing Date: 3/13/2020 11:59 PM Pacific
Bargaining Unit:: Management
Classification:: Program Manager 2

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Benton County is currently seeking an Elections & Passports Manager to join the team. This position is responsible for the management of the Elections and Passports division operations and staff.  Organize election and passport activities in Benton County, under the direction of the County Clerk and in accordance with applicable laws. Assist the Department Director/County Clerk in oversee operations in the Records & Elections department. Manage Records & Licenses division staff and assume the duties of the County Clerk, as needed.

Relocation assistance provided

Essential Duties

Elections and Passport Division Operations
Manages and oversees the day-to-day operations of the Elections and Passport Division and assists the director with a variety of related activities. Provides supervision of assigned staff, including prioritizing and assigning work; conducting performance evaluations; ensuring staff are trained; ensuring that employees follow policies and procedures; maintaining a healthy and safe working environment; and making or overseeing selection, termination, and disciplinary decisions.
Oversees elections and as a U.S. Passport Acceptance facility program and analyzes processes and department needs for improvement opportunities, efficiency, accuracy and compliance with governing statutes.
Develop and oversee division programs, monitor budget status.
 Election Operations
Ensure accurate practices and principles of administration, organization and functions of government agencies.
Ensure compliance with federal, state, county, city and district election laws and passport laws, rules and regulations. 
Ensure accurate maintenance of records compliance, such as passport log sheets, voter registration and related databases in the Oregon Centralized Voter Registration and Election Management System in and for Benton County. 
Prepare and distribute election certificates, reporting forms and surveys as needed or required.
Ensure elections that are conducted are compliant and within the standards of the Oregon Revised Statutes and Oregon's Vote-by-Mail Manual.
Communications, Public Relations
Effectively build relationships with the candidates, political parties, petitioners, cities and special districts to ensure election process and materials comply with governing statutes.
Collaborate with and engage outside agencies, vendors etc. in processes or program changes.
Manage and oversee website and ensure effective social media presence for Elections and Passports programs.
Develop and deliver presentations, media materials for interviews regarding election and passport issues, in collaboration with the County PIO and Clerk.
Serve as subject matter expert and provide consultation on complex election & passport requirements.
Develop and maintain strong relationships with the media, federal, state, and city government, schools, OSU, USPS, other jurisdictions, candidates, political committees, community organizations and interest groups.
Assist the County Clerk, Secretary of State, and Department of State with reports and materials.
Budget
Manage and oversee records of voter registration, ballot activity, supply inventories, personnel, and election costs & billings.
Develop division budget and contract management.
Manage and oversee equipment and software maintenance for elections, events and activities.
  
The following minimum qualifications are required for this position:
Bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university in a field related to area of assignment.
5 years of progressively responsible professional experience in area of assignment.    
At least 2 years of supervisory experience.
Valid Oregon driver's license.
An equivalent combination of education and experience may be accepted.

Preferred qualifications:
Knowledge of Microsoft Office products, Adobe designer, Geographic Information Systems and the Oregon Centralized Voter Registration System.
Oregon Association of County Clerk - Certified Election Administrator, Certified Recording Administrator and/or Certified County Clerk, equivalencies from other states and national certification also accepted.

A quick glance at our available compensation and benefits:
Annual salary range of  $59,404 - $89,119; Depending on qualifications and experience.
Employer-paid (high deductible) medical plan with additional options for an HSA or HRA account.
The County funds up to $1400 for the HSA or HRA account.
Choose between two dental group plans – MODA or Willamette.
The Vision plan is embedded in the medical plans.
Employer paid Life and AD&D insurance coverage, plus optional supplemental available for employee/spouse.
Employer paid Long Term Disability coverage.
Employer paid retirement contribution towards Oregon PERS.
Deferred Compensation 457b Plan with employer contribution and optional employee contribution.
Plus paid vacation, holiday, and sick leave; and a great work-life balance!

Benton County is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer committed to work force diversity, fair employment practices and non-discrimination, including pay equity for all employees. We do not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, color, sex, marital status, family status, national origin, age, mental or physical disability, protected veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity or source of income.

Must be able and capable in the operation of office machinery and software. Lifting materials and supplies up to 40 lbs. may be required. May involve frequent reaching, standing, walking, grasping, talking, reading, listening and repetitive motions.
 
If you wish to identify yourself as an individual with a disability under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and will be requesting accommodation, please contact the Benton County Human Resources Department by calling (541)766-6081 or email recruiting@co.benton.or.us

EMPLOYEE BENEFITS AT BENTON COUNTYWorking for the County is so much more than a job. It is a chance to make a local difference - in your own life and the lives of the people around you.Perfectly placed in the Willamette Valley, ninety miles south of Portland and forty miles north of Eugene, Benton County has easy access to urban areas with ample opportunities for cultural and major sporting events. Combined with unmatched outdoor recreation, County residents like to say they "have it all". With the Cascade Range, eighty miles to the East, and the Pacific Ocean fifty miles to the West – going out for a day at the beach, fishing, hunting, cycling or hiking is all within reach  – Benton County truly offers something for everyone.We offer a comprehensive benefits package designed to meet the needs of its employees and their families. Competitive benefits and an active employee wellness program is a top priority for the County.PLEASE CLICK HERE TO VIEW THE BENEFITS SUMMARY!