=== JOB DETAILS ===

SALARY: $46,203.00 - $78,218.00 Annually
LOCATION: Wake County, NC
JOB TYPE: Permanent Full-Time
JOB NUMBER: 60088217-02182020
DEPARTMENT: State Board of Elections
DIVISION: State Board of Elections
OPENING DATE: 02/18/2020
CLOSING DATE: 3/9/2020 5:00 PM Eastern
POSITION NUMBER: 60088217
SECTION: Board of Elections
SALARY GRADE: GN12

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

***Recruitment Range for the position $46,203 - $50,000***

Primary Purpose of the Division:
The North Carolina State Board of Elections is the state agency charged with overall responsibility for campaign finance disclosure and compliance in North Carolina.

Primary Purpose of the Position:
This role is responsible for providing overall oversight and team lead of two disclosure specialists under the direction of campaign finance director. The employee in this position will perform independently specialized compliance work in the enforcement and application of State Campaign Finance Laws. The employee must have the ability to obtain all the necessary information for accurate and complete compliance of political committee filings to perform cursory audit examinations including but not limited to prohibited contributions, principal occupation information and permissible expense purpose codes of political committees or filers disclosure reports, financial records and examination of source documentation related to such filings. Work requires considerable contact with our campaign finance director, disclosure team, auditor team, campaign finance attorney, noncompliance coordinator, chief operations manager, county boards of elections' staff and political committee treasurers.  The employee must develop proficiency using the agency's e-filing reporting software, understanding of QuickBooks invoicing statements and provide guidance to disclosure specialists, compliance team members and technical support to users.  This includes developing proficiency in using the agency's customer software for importing and storing report data.  The employee will manage the electronic reporting County Board of Elections use to certify late or non-compliant political committee disclosure reports to North Carolina State Board of Elections.  The employee will train state and county staff users in the new electronic STEPPS system. The employee guidance to users and filers for waiver requests and petition process for contested cases of penalty assessments with OAH.  The employee serves as the agency's lead in managing such data including but not limited to tracking all documentation that is required, performs technical `work, makes recommendations on such filings using specific criteria developed to handle waiver requests and prepares Board reports of the final recommendations.

Essential Job Duties Include:
Noncompliance, Penalty Assessments and Termination Process

Investigate all noncompliant committee records to determine when letter is warranted or penalty assessed then providing a list of completed work to noncompliance coordinator.
Serve as agency lead managing the electronic reporting of late or noncompliance filers for CBEs.
Use internal applications to determine committees have not filed scheduled reports, oversee and maintain submissions the FTP site.
 
Compliance Examination and evaluation of campaign finance disclosure filings as submitted by candidate committee, party, PACs or special fliers.
Cursory audit examinations including but not limited to prohibited contributions, principal occupation information and permissible expense purpose codes of political committees or filers disclosure reports, financial records and examination of source documentation related to such filings.
Assist audit and disclosure team in compliance matters.
Assist treasurers and special filers bringing them into compliance as needed.
Provide and interpret campaign finance laws.
Team Lead of Disclosure Specialist
Provide overall oversight under the director of campaign finance director.
Train state and county staff users in new electronic STEPPS system.
Investigate violations of Chapter 163, Article 22A (regulating contributions and expenditures in political campaigns)
Assist campaign finance director and campaign finance attorney with investigation, as needed with compliance and enforcement matters.
Perform cursory compliance examinations of campaign finance filings. 
 
Ensure that information contained in agency database is accurate and that administrative updates are made as needed.
Data entry of all manually filed CF reports.
Maintain accuracy

 

Considerable knowledge of investigative and research techniques and standards.
Considerable knowledge of investigative and research techniques and standards.
Ability to examine operations and/or systems, to collect data and information to assess accuracy, interpret and evaluate results.
Ability to reconstruct reports from unorganized or incomplete data.
Ability to use effective approaches for choosing a course of action or developing appropriate solutions based on available facts, constraints and anticipated consequences
Ability to interpret organizational and procedural problems, make changes when needed and to set work priorities.
Ability to interpret, apply and communicate statutory regulations of campaign finance program area.
Ability to instruct and explain standards and procedures.
Ability to establish effective working relations with state and county staff, officials, the general public
Ability to express oneself clearly and concisely in oral and written form.
Ability to work independently and exercise sound judgement in making decisions.
Considerable knowledge of effective practices and ability to plan and supervise the work of others under the direction of campaign finance director
Skill in organizing work flow and coordinating activities.

Bachelor s degree from an appropriately accredited institution and three (3) years progressively responsible experience related to the area of assignment; or an equivalent combination of training and experience.

Do you have at least 3 years experience working with a public program OR working in an accounting/auditing capacity?
 Yes

 No


If offered this position, would you accept a salary within the recruitment range as advertised ($46,203 - $50,000)?
 Yes

 No
