=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Voter Outreach &amp; Communications Coordinator
Salary: $30.06 - $38.67 HOUR
Location: Minneapolis 55414, MN, MN, 55415
Employer: City of Minneapolis
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2024-01-10
Job Type: Intermittent
Job Number: 2023-00954
Department: Office of City Clerk
Division: Elections & Voter Services
Opening Date: 01/11/2024
Closing Date: 1/28/2024 11:59 PM Central
FLSA: Non-Exempt
Bargaining Unit: CNR

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Minneapolis Elections & Voter Services is a division of the Office of the City Clerk whose purpose is to support access to local government. We administer local, state, and federal elections for Minneapolis voters. Our estimated population is 430,000 with about 244,000 registered voters. Behind Hennepin, Ramsey, and Dakota County, we are the fourth largest voting jurisdiction in the state. We work to conduct elections with integrity, accuracy, and accessibility, empower civic participation across generations, and lead in election administration through innovation and collaboration.
 
There is currently 1 (one) Voter Outreach & Communications Coordinator (Intermittent Program Assistant) vacancy. The Voter Outreach & Communications Coordinator supervises and supports the daily operations of the Voter Outreach and Communication Program. They will form partnerships in communities throughout Minneapolis that will foster and promote voting and civic participation with a primary focus on college students and minority communities but also include voters living with disabilities, voters with non-traditional addresses, and non-English speaking communities.  Intermittent work schedules may range from zero to forty (0 to 40) hours per week, depending on the election cycle and needs. Hours will fluctuate and will include some evening and weekend hours.
 
Desirable candidates will have prior experience in:

Working with community and non-profit organizations
Effectively engaging and sustaining relationships with people from diverse cultures and socioeconomic backgrounds 
Speaking in public and delivering presentations to different audiences
Working with desktop publishing products like Adobe Acrobat, Illustrator, Photoshop, and InDesign 
Creating and managing social media content

Develop and implement voter outreach and communications programs for Minneapolis Elections & Voter Services to increase voter participation and reduce disparities in voting access among city residents
Actively promote election engagement by giving presentations, attending outreach events, and using correspondence and written materials.
Develop recruitment and educational materials for voter outreach projects.
Attend community meetings/events to engage with neighborhood and community organizations.
Identify and recommend new outreach opportunities and partnerships through in-person meetings, correspondence, or discussions with external and internal stakeholders
Collaborate with other city departments to coordinate and implement voter outreach and communication efforts
Assist with the resolution of the problems that develop in relation to program activities and direct/resolve complaints as necessary.
Produce and execute presentations to increase awareness, provide information about services, facilities, programs or legal requirements for the program.
Oversee the production and distribution of applicable forms and supplies.
Perform research, evaluation and analysis.
 May assist with general clerical and administrative activities within the elections office or within the City Clerk’s Office in general.
Act as a liaison with other agencies, attorneys and administrators.
Establish and maintain records, clerical procedures, forms, etc.
Represent the division/department head at meetings.
May, under supervision act as a coordinator for specific projects or programs.
 
WORKING CONDITIONS:  General office settings; may involve assignments at various Minneapolis sites, including outside and/or warehouse-related activities.

Minimum Qualifications:
Post High School education or equivalent
 
Must meet Minnesota State Election Judge qualifications:

Eligible to vote in Minnesota;
Must be at least 18 years of age;
Able to read, write, and speak English;
Cannot be a candidate, or the spouse, parent, stepparent, child, stepchild, sibling or stepsibling of a candidate on the ballot;
Or domiciled, either permanently or temporarily, with any candidate on the ballot;
Must not be a candidate on the ballot.
 
Preferred Qualifications:
A minimum of three (3) years’ experience working in an election office, as an election judge in Minnesota, or a combination thereof.
Experience administering various types of elections, specifically including Ranked Choice Voting.
Equivalency
An equivalent combination of education and experience closely related to the duties of the position MAY be considered.
 
Selection Process
The selection process will consist of one or more of the following steps: a rating of relevant education and experience and/or an oral examination (100%). It is important that your application show all the relevant education and experience you possess. This information will be used to determine which candidates will proceed in the selection process. A submitted application is also used to verify the answers to any supplemental questions. Only those candidates who attain a passing score (70%) on each step in the selection process will be placed on the eligible list. The City of Minneapolis Human Resources Department reserves the right to limit the number in any phase of the selection process.
 
Interview Selection
The hiring authority reserves the right to determine the maximum number of candidates to interview from the established eligible list. If the hiring authority decides to interview other than by exam score order, they may select additional people to interview based on a candidate’s education or experience related to the field, work history, or skills uniquely related to the operational needs of the position.
 
Background Check
The City has determined that a criminal background check and/or qualifications check may be necessary for certain positions with this job title. Applicants may be required to sign an informed consent form allowing the City to obtain their criminal history and/or verify their qualifications in connection with the position sought. Applicants who do not sign the informed consent form will not be further considered for the position.

Union Representation
This position is not represented, for more information visit: CNR.
 
Eligible List
The names of applicants who meet minimum qualification and who pass the screening process shall be placed on the eligible list for employment consideration. This list will be certified to the hiring manager who may use the list to fill a vacancy of the same job title. This eligible list will expire one month after it has been established.

Considerable knowledge of modern office practices, clerical and administrative procedures and equipment.
Considerable knowledge of election law, policies, and procedures.
Good negotiating and conflict management skills
Ability to communicate clearly and effectively by phone, in person and in writing. 
Ability to work under pressure, manage emergencies and meet rigid deadlines. 
Considerable knowledge of the techniques of gathering, compiling, and analyzing data. 
Ability to make information presentations.
Strong attention to detail.
Ability to interact in a fair and impartial manner and establish and maintain effective working relationships with other staff members, department management, local election officials, and the general public.
Ability to handle confidential information in accordance with applicable laws and policies. 
Ability to manage time effectively and be flexible.
Ability to plan and organize projects of modest complexity.
Ability to be multitask and work with minimal supervision in other areas of the City Clerk’s Office, as needed. 
Ability to create a strong team working environment.
Ability to maintain good working relationships with a diverse population.

As the largest and most vibrant city in the state, Minneapolis depends on purposeful, dedicated and innovative employees. Minneapolis has a large variety of careers for people of all experiences and backgrounds who come together for a singular purpose—serving the residents, businesses and visitors of Minneapolis.

 

The City of Minneapolis is proud to be an Equal Employment Opportunity and Affirmative Action employer.

Benefits SummaryOur employees enjoy competitive salaries and generous benefits. We pride ourselves on a comprehensive benefits program that supports employees' health and financial well-being. Programs, resources, and benefit eligibility varies based on position, average hours worked, location and length of service. For detailed benefits information, please visit the benefits page. New 12 weeks of paid parental leaveCity employees are eligible for up to 12 weeks of paid parental leave in the event of a birth or placement for adoption of a child.InsuranceHealth insuranceEligibility for benefits begins the first of the month following employment date. The City of Minneapolis offers eligible employees one plan design with a choice of six provider networks, allowing you to select the best option for you. Available plans include Medica Choice Passport, Medica Elect, VantagePlus with Medica, Park Nicollet and HealthPartners Medical Group First with Medica, Ridgeview Community Network powered by Medica, and Clear Value with Medica.Dental insuranceThe City of Minneapolis offers dental insurance through Delta Dental of Minnesota and pays 100% of the monthly premium for eligible employees.BenefitsPaid time offOur generous leave package includes vacation, holidays and paid sick leave, which gives employees the opportunity to enhance their quality of life outside work. Amounts and accrual rates are based on years of experience and collective bargaining agreements.RetirementCity employees earn a pension and may choose to participate in additional retirement savings programs.	Pension: The City of Minneapolis participates in the Public Employees Retirement Association (PERA). Employees and the City both contribute a percentage of your pay to fund future benefits.	Deferred compensation: Employees may choose to participate in pre-tax or after-tax savings plans through the Minnesota State Retirement System (MSRS).TransportationEligible City employees may choose to participate in the following transportation programs:	Metropass: The Metropass program allows eligible employees to enroll in a pass for unlimited bus or light rail rides at a discounted price.	Parking or Van Pool: The City of Minneapolis Transportation Benefits Plan gives you options to pay certain commuting costs, such as qualified parking and van pool expenses, with pre-tax dollars.Learning and developmentTo engage and develop employees, the City of Minneapolis offers classes in leadership, cultural agility, change management and more. Additionally, educational discounts at Augsburg University, Hamline University, St. Catherine’s, and St. Mary's University of Minnesota are available to City employees.Other perksEmployees can also take advantage of optional life insurance, flexible spending accounts, the Employee Assistance Program, health club discounts and more. 


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        How did you find out about this position? (Select all that apply)
        
        
                Recruiter
                City of Minneapolis website
                City of Minneapolis employee
                City of Minneapolis job interest card
                City of Minneapolis Career Opportunities Bulletin
                Friend or family member
                League of Minnesota Cities website
                Diversityjobs.com website
                Governmentjobs.com website
                Indeed.com website
                Minnesotajobs.com website
                Minnesota Council of Nonprofits Website
                Other website
                LinkedIn
                Twitter
                Facebook
                Other social media site
                Newspaper
                Other media
                College or University
                Community organization
                Job Fair
                Professional association
                Site Visit
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Please specify where you heard about this position (e.g., website name, City of Minneapolis employee name, job fair, professional association).
        
        
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Do you have at least three (3) years of work experience in the following types of environments? (check all that apply)
        
        
                None
                Election/public administration
                Office setting
                Customer service
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Please indicate your experience in election administration:
        
        
                None
                Election judge experience, but not administration experience
                Less than six months experience
                Six months to two years experience
                Two to five years experience
                Five or more years experience
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Describe your experience with community/voter outreach efforts (Select all that apply).
        
        
                None
                Creating content for, and running various social media accounts
                Experience in planning and executing voter registration drives, or similar events
                Experience in using digital platforms for voter engagement and promotion including social media, email, and online events
                Familiarity with voting laws, regulations and policy issues affecting voter participation
                Collaboration with other non-profits and organizations to engage community members from diverse cultures and socioeconomic backgrounds
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Please rate your skill level relative to Microsoft Excel.
        
        
                None
                Beginner (basic worksheets, edit data, sort/filter, basic calculations, change formatting etc)
                Intermediate (complex formulas, charts, conditional formatting, edit templates, etc.)
                Advanced (pivot tables/charts, link data, forecasting, macros, consolidating etc.)
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Please rate your skill level relative to Microsoft Word.
        
        
                None
                Beginner (Create and edit simple documents, change the appearance of documents using a variety of editing techniques.)
                Intermediate (Create custom templates and styles, manage tables and table data, insert graphics, etc.)
                Advanced (Automate tasks by writing and revising macros, prepare documents for publication, modify an HTML page in Word, etc.)
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Please rate your skill level relative to Microsoft Outlook.
        
        
                None
                Beginner (create/edit simple emails, change appearance of emails using variety of editing tools, attach documents)
                Intermediate (Create and manage folders, change appearance of emails using variety of editing tools, use of journal)
                Advanced (setting up filing rules for emails, voting options, use of journal)
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        