 CLASSIFICATION PURPOSE AND DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS

To provide eligible citizens of San Diego County with widespread and ongoing opportunities to register and vote in fair and accurate elections for all Federal, State, and local offices and measures; to provide access to the information needed to utilize the initiative, referendum, and recall petition processes; and to perform related duties.
 

This is a one-position executive management level classification reporting directly to the Deputy Chief Administrative Officer. The Director oversees and acts as the appointing authority for the department and is responsible for the management of the overall activities of the department, including formulating and administering Countywide policy.




EXAMPLES OF DUTIES 

Essential Functions: 

1.    Directs, plans, organizes, and coordinates the overall activities of the Department.

2.    Directs the planning, implementation, and evaluation of policies and programs.

3.    Works closely with the County's elected leadership and top management in setting and carrying out the County's vision, mission and objectives for the Department.

4.    Identifies problems and formulates appropriate solutions.

5.    Provides leadership and works with subordinate managers to develop and retain highly competent, service-oriented staff through selection, training and day-to-day management practices that support the County's and the Department's mission, objectives and service expectations; participates in programs and activities that promote workplace diversity and a positive employee relations environment.

6.    Supervises subordinate staff.

7.    Communicates with other public and private entities, elected officials, County departments, agency representatives, business, community and/or environmental groups, as well as a myriad of stakeholders regarding department policies and requirements.

8.    Develops the department's annual budget, and monitors revenue and expenditure transactions.

9.    Administers, negotiates, and evaluates contracts.

10.  Performs other duties as assigned.

 

KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS AND ABILITIES

 Knowledge of: 

Principles, practices, concepts, methods and techniques related to the essential functions of the Department
Policy and procedure development and implementation related to the Department
State and Federal regulations related to the Department
Legal authority of State law, joint powers agreements, and cooperative agreements
Principles and practices of supervision and training
Principles and theories of public administration including general administration, human resources management, and fiscal management
County customer service objectives and strategies
The General Management System (GMS) in principle and in practice
Current technology and trends in the profession 

Skills and Abilities to:

Plan, organize, direct, and evaluate the overall activities of staff involved in the preparation and implementation of department policies
Coordinate departmental services with County departments and public/private agencies
Ensure that departmental activities conform with Federal, State, and local laws and regulations
Identify and creatively resolve problems within regulated and legislated parameters
Drive for results and be accountable for outcomes
Prepare annual budget and monitor revenues and expenditures
Supervise, train, mentor and evaluate the work of subordinate staff
Establish short and long range plans to meet projected service levels
Prepare and persuasively deliver public presentations on the department's initiatives, activities, functions, and issues to a wide variety of audiences
Establish and maintain effective working and diplomatic relations with staff, the public, and representatives from governmental agencies, the community, industry, media, and other organizations
Exercise appropriate judgment in answering questions and releasing information; analyze and project consequences of decisions and/or recommendations

 

CORE VALUES

Integrity, Stewardship and Commitment


LEADERSHIP COMPETENCIES

 Initiative

Problem Solving

Results Oriented

 Interpersonal Relationships

Organizational Acumen

Development of Others

EDUCATION AND/OR EXPERIENCE

A bachelor's degree from an accredited U.S. college or university or certified foreign studies equivalency AND five years of management level experience that demonstrates the abilit y to perform the essential functions of the classification. Experience must include at least one year of supervision.

Note: A master's or doctoral degree from an accredited U.S. college or university, or a certified foreign studies equivalency, may substitute for up to one (1) year of the required experience.

REQUIRED LICENSES, CERTIFICATIONS OR REGISTRATIONS

Required licenses, certifications and registrations must be maintained throughout employment in this class.

Positions may involve necessary and timely transportation for field travel, requiring the ability to arrange transportation to different worksites, meetings, or field work.

Certification/Registration 
None Required. 


SPECIAL NOTES

Working Conditions 
Office environment exposure to computer screens. Long hours during peak election cycles, including nights and weekends. Leaves of absence may be restricted during election cycle.

Essential Physical Characteristics
The physical characteristics described here are representative of those that must be met by an employee to successfully perform the essential functions of this classification. 

Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable qualified individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions of a job, on a case-by-case basis.

Continuous: upward and downward flexing of the neck. Frequent: sitting, repetitive use of hands to operate computers. Occasional: walking, standing, bending and twisting of neck, bending and twisting of waist, squatting, simple grasping, reaching above and below shoulder level, and lifting and carrying of files weighing up to 10 pounds.

Background Investigation 
Must have a reputation for honesty and trustworthiness. Misdemeanor and/or felony convictions may be disqualifying depending on type, number, severity, and recency. Prior to appointment, candidates will be subject to a background investigation. 


PROBATIONARY PERIOD 

Persons serving in positions in the Unclassified Service do not accrue tenure and serve at the pleasure of the appointing authority.

 

 

Registrar of Voters (Class No. 002163)                         Union Code:EM                        