ELECTION DIRECTOR III
Recruitment #25-001497-0001
| Department | SBE General Administration |
|---|---|
| Date Opened | 4/30/2025 10:56:00 AM |
| Filing Deadline | 5/30/2025 11:59:00 PM |
| Salary | $95,991.00 - $176,552.00/year |
| Employment Type |
Full-Time
|
| HR Analyst | Christina Lohr |
| Work Location |
Baltimore City
|
GRADE
LOCATION OF POSITION
Main Purpose of Job
An Election Director III is the supervisory or managerial level of work directing elections in local jurisdictions within the State. The work of this classification may require travel throughout the State to exchange information regarding the election process and promote voter registration. Employees supervise office support staff which may include subordinate supervisors.
Employees in this classification receive managerial supervision from the State Administrator or Deputy State Administrator of Election Laws. Â Employees may be required to work evenings and weekends.
Position allocation to the Election Director series is determined by the size of the local jurisdiction as reflected by the number of registered voters. Copies of this supplemental job evaluation standard can be found in the Offices of the State and local Boards of Elections and in the Department of Budget and Managementâs Office of Personnel Services and Benefits.
POSITION DUTIES
Directs the conduct of elections in compliance with federal, State and local laws, regulations and statutes;
Conducts elections in compliance with federal, State and local laws, regulations and statutes;
Oversees and coordinates the day-to-day operations of a local election office to include voter registration program, absentee balloting program, provisional ballot program, Same Day Registration, redistricting precinct boundary program, candidate filing, ballot preparation, voting machine purchase, maintenance and site delivery, acquisition of polling places and early voting sites, and the recruitment and training of election judges;
Supervises, directly or through subordinate supervisors, election office staff, temporary office associates, election judges, per diem staff to conduct canvasses and nursing home and assisted-living facilities absentee and voter registration programs;
Supervises the Performance Evaluation Program for State employees and the administration of interview and hiring of new staff;
Directs the dissemination of information pertaining to election policies, procedures, laws, and regulations to the general public, candidates and political parties by utilizing social media and managing the local board website;
Prepares and coordinates the release of statements to the media;
Prepares and administers the annual budget for the local election office;
Manages and administers procurement of services, supplies and materials for the local election office;
Develops and revises policies, procedures and training manuals related to the administration of the local election office;
Reviews proposed federal, State and local legislation to determine the impact upon the conduct of elections;
Testifies at federal, State and local legislative hearings to support or oppose proposed legislation related to the election process;
Analyzes census data and existing congressional, legislative and councilmanic districts and recommends new precinct boundaries;
Implements approved precinct boundaries to include developing maps and street directories, acquisition of polling places, and notification of voters;
Secures and coordinates services provided by local jurisdictions such as employment of temporary staff, printing and publications, lease of polling places, payroll functions, data processing support and telecommunications;
Participates in task force committees, conferences and workshops throughout the State in order to exchange information related to the conduct of elections;
Prepares operational and statistical reports and records;
Keeps abreast of technological advances in equipment and data tracking systems in order to more effectively direct the conduct of elections;
Oversees and conducts monthly audits, post-election audits, manual audits and recounts;
Implements new voting systems and other processes, such as Same Day Registration, as required by the Maryland General Assembly;
Manages insurance policies, warehouse and security specifications, including the acquisition of new office space when needed to store voting equipment and sensitive documents;
Conducts risk assessments and creates operation plans for Election Days, Early Voting and the daily operations of the election office;
Prepare contingency plans, power management plans and disaster recovery plans for daily operations, Election Days and Early Voting;
Manages security systems and coordinates with security services to effectively follow all cybersecurity and physical security rules;
Attends and is present for all Early Voting and Election Day activities including the opening and closing of the centers;
May coordinate voter registration activities for local municipalities in accordance with the Universal Registration Code of State election laws;
Performs other related duties.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS
Experience: EightÂ years of experienceÂ applying federal, state, and local election laws and regulations applicable to conducting elections, which must have included at least one presidential or gubernatorial election, andÂ an additionalÂ fourÂ years of supervisory or management experience.
Notes:
1.Â Candidates may substitute the possession of a Bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university andÂ five years of supervisory experience or project management experience for the required experience.
2. Candidates may substituteÂ the possession of a Bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university for four of the eight years of required experienceÂ applying federal, state, and local election laws and regulations applicable to conducting elections, which must have included at least one presidential or gubernatorial election.
DESIRED OR PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS
Preference will be given to applicantsÂ who possess the following preferred qualification(s).Â Include clear and specific information on your application regardingÂ your qualifications.
1. Experience conducting meetings and making presentations to large diverse audiences.Â
2. Experience communicating complex information to the public 3
. Experience maintaining and tracking data and data analysis.Â
4. Experience supervising support staff and conducting performance evaluations.Â
5. Experience preparing, developing, and administering a financial budget.Â
LICENSES, REGISTRATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS
SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS
1. Employees in this classification are required to be registered voters in the State of Maryland in accordance with the Election Law Article, Section 2-207 (d), Annotated Code of Maryland.
2. Employees in this classification may not hold or be a candidate for any elective public or political party office or any other office created under the Constitution or laws of this State in accordance with the Election Law Article, Section 2-301(b).
SELECTION PROCESS
Please make sure that you provide sufficient information on your application to show that you meet the qualifications for this recruitment. All information concerning your qualifications must be submitted by the closing date.Â We will not consider information submitted after this date.Â Successful candidates will be ranked as Best Qualified, Better Qualified, or Qualified and placed on theÂ eligible (employment) list for at least one year.
Â
Â
Â
EXAMINATION PROCESS
The assessment may consist of a rating of your education, training, and experience related to the requirements of the position.Â It is important that you provide complete and accurate information on your application.Â Please report all experience and education that is related to this position.
Applicants must meet all minimum (and selective) qualifications to be considered, and to appear on the list of people eligible for hire. Please read all requirements before applying.
BENEFITS
FURTHER INSTRUCTIONS
Online applications are highly recommended. However, if you are unable to apply online,Â the paper application (and supplemental questionnaire) may be submitted to the State Board of Elections, 151 West St., Suite 200, Annapolis, MD 21401.Â Paper application materials must be received by 5:00 pm on the closing date for the recruitment. Resumes will not be accepted in lieu of an application.
If additional information is required, the preferred method is to upload.Â If you are unable to upload, please fax the requested informationÂ to 410-974-5126.Â Only additional materials that are required will be accepted for this recruitment. All additional information must be received by the closing date and time.
For questions regarding this recruitment, please contact Chris.Lohr@Maryland.gov.
MD TTY Relay Service: 1-800-735-2258.
We thank our Veterans for their service to our country.
People with disabilities and bilingual candidates are encouraged to apply.
As an equal opportunity employer, Maryland is committed to recruitment, retaining and promoting employees who are reflective of the State's diversity.