The incumbent is responsible for creating EAC clearinghouse material to assist Election Officials, Voters, and other stakeholders with best practices, white papers, tools, data, training materials, instructions, and any additional information that would be helpful to election administrators to assist with the administration of elections.
The incumbent is responsible for creating EAC clearinghouse material to assist Election Officials, Voters, and other stakeholders with best practices, white papers, tools, data, training materials, instructions, and any additional information that would be helpful to election administrators to assist with the administration of elections.
The incumbent will provide expert guidance regarding election administration that touches all facets of the agency to serve EAC stakeholders. The agency is filling multiple positions with this vacancy.
Responsibilities:
The incumbent is responsible for creating EAC clearinghouse material to assist Election Officials, Voters, and other stakeholders with best practices, white papers, tools, data, training materials, instructions, and any additional information that would be helpful to election administrators to assist with the administration of elections. The incumbent will provide expert guidance regarding election administration that touches all facets of the agency to serve EAC stakeholders. The agency is filling multiple positions with this vacancy.
Bachelor's or higher degree in a related field is preferred.
You will be evaluated for this job based on how well you meet the qualifications above.
Please read the "Next steps" section for more information.
Required documents include a resume and the supporting documents as described in the "How to Apply Instructions" section of this announcement.
Education must be accredited by an accrediting institution recognized by the U.S. Department of Education in order for it to be credited towards qualifications. Therefore, provide only the attendance and/or degrees from schools accredited by accrediting institutions recognized by the U.S. Department of Education.
Failure to provide all of the required information as stated in this vacancy announcement may result in an ineligible rating or may affect the overall rating.
All applicants MUST submit applications via email: resumes@eac.gov. You do not need to submit your application package through the USAJOBS process.
You MUST include the job title and announcement number in the subject line of the email.
Your application package must be received by the closing date of the announcement and must include the following:
1. A resume.
2. Three professional references:
Your application materials will be reviewed and if an interview is deemed appropriate, you will be contacted with further information.
The Federal hiring process is set up to be fair and transparent. Please read the following guidance.