=== JOB DETAILS ===

Salary: $77,840.67 - $98,667.50 Annually
Location: WA 98057-2906, WA
Job Type: Career Service, Full Time, 40 hrs/week
Job Number: 2019RL11100
Department: KCE - King County Elections
Opening Date: 12/23/2019
Closing Date: 1/20/2020 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Non-Exempt
Bargaining Unit: Z3 : KC Personnel Guidelines

BENEFITS:
  • Medical, dental, and vision coverage: King County pays 100% of the premiums for eligible employees and family members
  • Life and disability insurance: employees are provided basic coverage and given the opportunity to purchase additional insurance for both the employee and eligible dependents
  • Retirement: King County employees are eligible to participate in a pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems and a 457(b) deferred-compensation plan
  • Transportation program and ORCA transit pass
  • 10 paid holidays each year (plus 2 personal holidays)
  • Generous vacation and paid sick leave
  • Paid parental leave, family and medical leaves, and volunteer leave
  • Flexible Spending Account
  • Wellness programs
  • Onsite gyms and activity centers
  • Employee giving program
  • Employee assistance programs
  • Flexible schedules and telecommuting options, depending on position
  • Training and career development programs

For additional information about employee benefits please visit our
Benefits, Payroll, and Retirement Page
.
This is a general description of the benefits offered to eligible King County employees, and every effort has been made to ensure its accuracy.  If any information on this document conflicts with the provisions of a collective bargaining agreement (CBA), the CBA prevails.  Also, in the event of any incorrect information in this document, applicable laws, policies, rules, CBAs, or official plan documents will prevail.
NOTE:
Benefits for Term Limited Temporary (TLT) or Short Term Temporary (STT) positions, including leave eligibility and/or participation in the pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems, will vary based upon the terms and details of the position. Short Term Temporary positions are not eligible for an ORCA transit pass.
For inquiries about the specifics of this position, please contact the recruiter identified on this job posting.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

This is an amazing opportunity to be engage in the election process!

The Department of Election is recruiting a Candidate & Jurisdiction Coordinator. This position will be responsible for the supervision of the candidate and jurisdiction program including the planning and coordination of the candidate and ballot measure and voters' pamphlet filing processes.  This position also oversees the ballot build, insertion and delivery processes; training of short-term temporary staff; and customer relations with vendors and external customers.

King County Elections (KCE) manages voter registration and elections for more than 1.3 million voters in King County and is the largest vote-by-mail county in the United States. KCE's mission is to conduct fair, open and accurate elections. As a leader in providing inclusive elections, KCE is focused on three key priorities – (1) actively identifying and working to remove barriers to voting at both the individual and community level, (2) strengthening relationships with community and governmental partners, and (3) creating a culture of professional growth and development, openness and inclusion. Learn more at www.kingcounty.gov/elections.aspx
 
The Department of Elections is searching for an energetic and resourceful professional who likes to get stuff done. The Candidate & Jurisdiction Coordinator in the Elections Department combines an exciting environment with the opportunity to cultivate talents and apply a variety of skills. The ideal candidate will thrive in an innovative, fast-paced environment and will not hesitate to roll up both sleeves, work hard, have fun, and get the job done. 

Who May Apply:  This position is open to the general public and all King County employees.

Materials Required to Apply: Applicants must submit a (1) King County Application, (2) Resume, and (3) Letter of Interest. The letter of interest should describe how your education and experience meet the qualifications and have prepared you to perform the essential functions of the job. Applications without the required materials may not be considered for this position.

Work Schedule:  The standard workweek for this position is Monday through Friday, 40 hours per week.  We require the flexibility to work additional hours during peak periods of the election cycle. This position is exempt from the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act and is therefore not eligible for overtime.
 

Lead efforts in evaluating and proposing revisions to assigned areas of responsibility, such as candidate filing, ballot build, and insertion.
Coordinate needs and assignments with supervisors in the department.
Supervise the work of assigned staff including motivating, coaching, conducting performance evaluations and recommending disciplinary actions.
Develop schedules, set objections and goals, and coordinate with internal customers for assigned areas of responsibility including ballot build, insertion and voters' pamphlet.
Present information to candidates, jurisdictions and other external customers by providing information, making presentations, and answering questions.
Ensure regulatory compliance with laws, rules and regulations governing elections processes.

Strong written and verbal communication skills, including the ability to summarize complex issues succinctly.
Ability to work in a fast-paced environment and take initiative on projects.
Ability to manage quickly changing priorities and information.
Strong planning skills and problem-solving ability.
Skills in handling a number of projects or tasks simultaneously, managing priorities, meeting deadlines, and meeting or exceeding goals.
Knowledge of workload planning and scheduling.
Knowledge and skill in supervising, motivating and coaching professional level support staff.
Excellent customer service skills with the ability to meet the requirements and expectations of internal and external customers. Ability to interact with different types of people and build and maintain effective relationships.
Skill in program management.
Skill in handling stressful situations effectively while maintaining composure.
Skill in working independently on assigned tasks with minimal or no guidance.
Proficient use of Outlook, Word, Excel, SharePoint.
  
Most competitive candidates will have demonstrated the following experiences:         
 
Experience supervising elections daily operational functions.
Knowledge and experience with local and state voter databases.
One year of experience in the following technology systems – Clear Ballot and Democracy Live.

Travel to work locations throughout King County with limited or no public transportation services is required. A valid Washington State Driver's License is required to operate King County vehicles. 

For more information regarding this recruitment, please contact: 
Reeshema Lewis
Sr. HR Business Partner
Email:  Reeshema.Lewis@kingcounty.gov
Phone: 206-263-8413

King County is proud to be an Equal Employment Opportunity /Affirmative Action employer and we encourage people of color, women, veterans and people with disabilities to apply. 