=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Manager
Salary: $6,963.93 - $11,143.93 MONTH
Location: NE, NE, NE, 68183
Employer: Douglas County (NE)
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2025-01-31
Job Type: Full Time
Job Number: 9834
Department: Election Commission
Opening Date: 02/01/2025
Closing Date: 3/2/2025 4:30 PM Central

BENEFITS:
  • Insurance including health, dental, vision, and life
  • Pension
  • Sick Leave
  • Vacation Leave
  • 13 Holidays
  • Flex Spending Accounts
  • Deferred Income plans (457 plan)
  • EAP
  • Health Savings Accounts

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Incumbent works under the direction of the Election Commissioner or designee, providing direction in the management of commission staff and the administration of elections in adherence to Federal, State and Local statutes.

Manage office and field operations (e.g. voter registration, voter education and outreach, community communications, election mapping, computer systems, election databases, candidate filings, ballot preparation, absentee voting, poll worker recruitment and training, polling place management, election day logistics, vote tabulation and reporting, payroll, and purchasing).
Establish and maintain effective work relationships with clients, supervisors, County employees, elected officials, attorneys, law enforcement, judges, other agencies, and the public.
Comply with Civil Service policies and regulations, collective bargaining agreements, County policies, department policies and laws to create a cooperative, safe, respectful and quality work environment.
Supervise assigned staff (e.g. hiring, orienting, training, monitoring, evaluating, recommending personnel actions). 
Assist in planning, implementation, administration and evaluation of Election Commission plans, policies and procedures.
Monitor federal and state legislation related to the election process and recommend changes in practices and procedures.
Implement and ensure adherence to federal government regulations governing voter registration and election processes as defined in the Help America Vote Act.
Assist in preparing and managing the Election Commission budget.
Coordinate Election Commission functions with other departments, outside agencies and private contractors.
Use GIS and mapping software, proofing election boundaries and precincts.
Promote a safe working environment for employees.
Plan and organize a personal work schedule, set priorities and meet deadlines.
Oversee counting and canvass boards.
Perform special projects.
Prepare and maintain various records, reports, correspondence, and other departmental documents.
Safely operate a motor vehicle when required to travel on County business.
Report to work at assigned work location with regular, consistent attendance.
Perform other related duties as assigned and directed.

Bachelor's degree, from an accredited university or college in Public Administration, Business Administration, or a related field required.*
Four (4) years of related work experience required.*
One (1) year of supervisory experience required.
Two (2) years of MS Office experience required.
Valid driver's license and own transportation upon hire and maintained throughout employment required.
Completion of a pre-employment criminal record check, physical assessment and conditional offer drug screen required.
*Equivalent combination of education and work experience may be substituted for requirements on a year-for-year basis.

The physical demands and work environment characteristics described here are representative of those that must be met by an employee in order to successfully perform the duties and responsibilities of this job. Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions of this job.
Work is generally performed in an office setting or at various on-site County locations. Noise level is usually moderate. Work hours are typically standard day-shift hours; however, schedule may vary (e.g. days, shifts, weekends, overtime/extra hours, holidays, emergency call-in). Work may be stressful when dealing with time constraints, multiple/changing resources, limited resources and uncooperative/irate individuals.
Work requires some physical activity, including extended periods of sitting, standing, walking, frequent reaching, and occasional keeling, bending, crouching, stooping. Work also requires the ability to frequently lift and/or carry objects weighing up to 10 pounds and occasionally up to 50 pounds. 
Required sensory abilities include, vision, hearing and touch. Visual abilities, correctable to normal ranges, include close, distance, color and peripheral vision, depth perception, the ability to adjust focus. Communication abilities include the ability to talk and hear within normal ranges. Incumbent must possess the hand-eye coordination and manual dexterity necessary to operate computers and other equipment.

Douglas County offers a comprehensive benefit package including:	Insurance including health, dental, vision, and life	Pension	Sick Leave	Vacation Leave	13 Holidays	Flex Spending Accounts	Deferred Income plans (457 plan)	EAP	Health Savings Accounts


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        What is the highest level of education you have completed?
        
        
                High school diploma/GED
                1 year of college
                2 years of college
                3 or more years of college
                Bachelor's Degree
                Master's Degree
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        If your degree is in a field of study other than Public Administration or Business Administration, please specify your field of study.
        
        
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        How many years of related work experience do you have?
        
        
                Less than three years
                Three years
                Four years
                Five years
                Six years
                Seven years
                Eight or more years
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Do you have at least one (1) year of supervisory experience?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Do you have at least two (2) years of MS Office experience?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        You must possess a valid driver's license and own transportation at the time of hire and throughout employment. Do you understand this condition of employment?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Are you able to successfully perform the Essential Functions of the job with or without reasonable accommodation?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Are you able to meet the Physical Requirements and Working Conditions of this position with or without reasonable accommodation?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        If you answer yes to claiming Veteran's Preference, you must attach to your application, before submission, a copy of your DD214 including page 4 identifying your character of service (and IF disabled, verification of disability from the VA), OR if you are a spouse of a 100% disabled veteran, you must attach a copy of your spouse's DD214, showing character of service, a copy of the veteran's disability verification from the Department of Veteran's Affairs demonstrating a 100% permanent disability rating, and proof of marriage to the veteran; OR if you are a spouse of an active service member, you must attach a copy of your spouse's active service orders and proof of marriage to the active service member.

I understand this requirement that documents must be attached.
        
        
                Yes
                No
                I am not claiming Veteran's Preference
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        Are you able to work Monday through Friday from 8:30 am to 5:00 pm?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

11

    

    
        The pay range salary for this position is $6,963.93 to $11,143.93 per month. Is this acceptable to you?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        