=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Voter Registration Coordinator
Salary: $25.37 - $30.91 HOUR
Location: Clallam County Courthouse, WA, WA, 98362
Employer: Clallam County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2025-01-29
Job Type: Regular Full-Time
Job Number: 2025-19
Department: Auditor
Opening Date: 01/29/2025
Closing Date: 2/12/2025 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Non-Exempt
Bargaining Unit: Teamster
Grant Funded: No

BENEFITS:
  • Medical - Premera Blue Cross Blue Shield
  • Dental - Delta Dental of Washington
  • Vision - Northwest Benefit Network
  • Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA)
  • HRA Veba (select positions)
  • Life and disability insurance (select positions)
  • Wellness Benefit Program
  • Infant at Work Program
  • Employee Assistance Program
  • Transportation Program/Transit Pass
  • Training and Career Development Program

Retirement:
Employees are covered under the PERS retirement plan provided through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems and Social Security.	Sheriff's Office Employees are covered under LEOFF2 and PSERS.
Deferred Compensation:
Deferred Compensation Program 457(b) - Tax Deferred Savings Program	Deferred Compensation Program 401(a) - Tax Deferred Savings Program
Vacation:
Generous Vacation and Paid Sick Leave
11 Paid Holidays Annually 			New Year's Day		Martin Luther King, Jr. Day		Presidents' Day		Memorial Day		Juneteenth Day		Independence Day		Labor Day		Veteran's Day		Thanksgiving Day		day following Thanksgiving		Christmas Day			4 Personal Days (32 hours floating holiday)	Employment Vacation Donation Program	Vacation Leave Accrual (Unless otherwise provided by contract, all regular full-time employees shall accrue vacation leave monthly based upon the following schedule):			0-48 months = 8 hours per month 		49-108 months = 10 hours per month		109-168 months = 12 hours per month		169-204 months = 14 hours per month		Over 204 months = 16.67 hours per month
Sick Leave:
Full-time employees accrue sick leave at the rate of 8 hours per month. Eligibility for use of sick leave is established after one month of continuous employment.
**Part-time employee's benefit contributions and leave accruals are prorated.
NOTE: This is a general overview of the benefits offered through employment with Clallam County, and every effort has been made to ensure its accuracy. Please contact Human Resources at 360.417.2402 if further clarification is needed.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Do you have a passion for the electoral process? Are you skilled at managing detailed processes and working with the public? We are seeking a highly organized and detail-oriented Voter Registration Coordinator to join our team in the Clallam County Auditor’s Office!




Salary Information
The compensation for this position ranges from $25.37 [Starting Wage] to $30.91 [Top Wage] per hour. This salary structure is based on the County’s 9-step pay scale.
 
Description
The ideal candidate will be responsible for planning, organizing, and coordinating the voter registration processes, ensuring compliance with established policies, procedures, and regulations. Key duties include assisting the public with voter registration, maintaining and updating voter records, processing absentee ballots, and coordinating with the State Voter Registration Database. The role also involves generating reports, managing precinct boundaries, responding to public inquiries, and preparing legal documents. The successful candidate will demonstrate excellent communication skills, proficiency in data management, and the ability to handle sensitive information with discretion. If you are passionate about the electoral process and committed to maintaining the integrity of voter registration, we encourage you to apply.
 
For a complete copy of the job description - click HERE