=== JOB DETAILS ===

Salary: $24.50 - $31.19 Hourly
Location: WA 98057-2906, WA
Job Type: Career Service, Full Time, 35 hrs/week
Job Number: 2020RL11278
Department: KCE - King County Elections
Division: Voter Services
Opening Date: 01/29/2020
Closing Date: 2/12/2020 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Non-Exempt
Bargaining Unit: F1A : L117-Admin

BENEFITS:
  • Medical, dental, and vision coverage: King County pays 100% of the premiums for eligible employees and family members
  • Life and disability insurance: employees are provided basic coverage and given the opportunity to purchase additional insurance for both the employee and eligible dependents
  • Retirement: King County employees are eligible to participate in a pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems and a 457(b) deferred-compensation plan
  • Transportation program and ORCA transit pass
  • 10 paid holidays each year (plus 2 personal holidays)
  • Generous vacation and paid sick leave
  • Paid parental leave, family and medical leaves, and volunteer leave
  • Flexible Spending Account
  • Wellness programs
  • Onsite gyms and activity centers
  • Employee giving program
  • Employee assistance programs
  • Flexible schedules and telecommuting options, depending on position
  • Training and career development programs

For additional information about employee benefits please visit our
Benefits, Payroll, and Retirement Page
.
This is a general description of the benefits offered to eligible King County employees, and every effort has been made to ensure its accuracy.  If any information on this document conflicts with the provisions of a collective bargaining agreement (CBA), the CBA prevails.  Also, in the event of any incorrect information in this document, applicable laws, policies, rules, CBAs, or official plan documents will prevail.
NOTE:
Benefits for Term Limited Temporary (TLT) or Short Term Temporary (STT) positions, including leave eligibility and/or participation in the pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems, will vary based upon the terms and details of the position. Short Term Temporary positions are not eligible for an ORCA transit pass.
For inquiries about the specifics of this position, please contact the recruiter identified on this job posting.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

This is an amazing opportunity to be engaged in the election process!

The Department of Elections is recruiting for an Elections Specialist Lead to join our Voter Services team.  This position will lead processes, projects, and people which will include leading, coaching, mentoring, and training temporary and regular staff.  Leads may also provide assistance and/or participate in long-term cross-training in multiple work areas to meet organizational agile efforts. This is a great opportunity for a customer service oriented person with strong communication and interpersonal skills.   

King County Elections (KCE) manages voter registrations and elections for more than 1.3 million voters in King County, the largest vote-by-mail county in the United States. KCE's mission is to conduct fair, open and accurate elections.  As a leader in providing inclusive elections, KCE is focused on three key priorities – (1) actively identifying and working to remove barriers to voting at both the individual and community level, (2) strengthening relationships with community and governmental partners, and (3) creating a culture of professional growth and development, openness and inclusion. Learn more at www.kingcounty.gov/elections.aspx.
 
The Department of Elections is searching for an energetic and resourceful professional who likes to "get stuff done". The Elections Specialist Lead positions in the Elections Department combine an exciting, fast-paced environment with the opportunity to cultivate talent and apply a variety of skills. The ideal candidate will thrive in an innovative, fast-paced environment and will not hesitate to roll up both sleeves, work hard, have fun, and get the job done. 
 
WHO MAY APPLY:  This career service position is open to the general public and all King County employees.
 
WORK LOCATION(S):  This position will work at Renton Elections Building located at 919 SW Grady Way, Renton, WA 98057.  The position will also frequently be requested to work at the King County Administration Building located at 500 4th Ave in Seattle and may be requested to work at additional off site voting and registration centers throughout the county.

WORK SCHEDULE:  The workweek is typically 35 hours per week, 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. We require the flexibility to work additional hours during peak periods of the Election cycle that may occur outside of typical business hours. This position is subject to the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act and is overtime eligible.
 
REQUIRED MATERIALS: A resume and cover letter are required and should be attached before submitting your application.  The cover letter should describe how your skills and experience meet or exceed the requirements of the job.  Applications without the required materials may not be considered for this position.

 

Organize and coordinate work activities; provide training and direction to diverse work groups.
Improve work processes, address quality control issues, and document procedures and work instructions.
Develop spreadsheets, word documents, and reports; review documents for proper formatting and accuracy.
Research and resolve questions, problems, or inquiries from staff, citizens and/or stakeholders.
Serve as lead for the Customer Service team which may include the following responsibilities:
Operate in person vote centers during some election periods providing customer service to voters who are registering to vote, updating their information, or getting a ballot.
Provide customer service to internal and external customers in person, by email and by phone communicating election program information and explaining election procedures, guidelines and regulations.
Operate the phone bank during some election periods providing oversight of staff.
Process incoming mail and distribute to appropriate workgroups.
Create and manage outgoing voter correspondence.
Process public data requests.

Experience providing oversight to a diverse group of workers in a team focused environment.
Demonstrated ability to provide excellent verbal and written communication including instruction, training, and feedback.
Work experience that includes maintaining and tracking data and data analysis.
Experience presenting information to large diverse audiences.
Demonstrated ability maintaining a professional demeanor and providing timely and reliable customer service.
Demonstrated skill in handling stressful situations effectively while maintaining composure.
Experience maintaining confidentiality, while sharing the right information with the appropriate people.
Demonstrated ability managing quickly changing priorities and quickly changing information. Ability to multi-task in a busy environment.
Ability to work cooperatively with a variety of individuals in a team environment.
Demonstrated comfort with the use of Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Word, email and electronic record filing systems to create correspondence and spreadsheets, send and receive information, access and analyze data, and develop reports and outreach materials.

DESIRABLE QUALIFICATIONS:
 
Working knowledge of election operations.
Experience leading or overseeing customer service staff in a call center environment.

Travel to work locations throughout King County with limited or no public transportation services is required. A valid Washington State Driver's License is required to operate King County vehicles. 

PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS:  The duties in this position are performed in an office setting and may be required to lift at least 20 pounds independently and up to 50 pounds in a team setting. 
 
UNION: This position is represented by Teamsters, Local 117, Administrative Support union.

King County is proud to be an Equal Employment Opportunity /Affirmative Action employer and we encourage people of color, women, veterans and people with disabilities to apply.
 
For more information regarding this recruitment, please contact: 
Reeshema Lewis
Sr. HR Business Partner
Reeshema.Lewis@kingcounty.gov
(206) 263-8413