Gain a Competitive Edge
Give your organization a competitive edge with a curated compensation strategy.
Our team specializes in designing, implementing, and optimizing industry-leading compensation plans that will position your organization to attract and retain top performers and key leaders.
Compensation Solutions
Design and implement a compensation structure that aligns with your goals, talent strategy, and business performance.
Design and implement a compensation structure that aligns with your goals, talent strategy, and business performance.
Leverage our expertise to analyze and optimize executive and board of director compensation.
Attract and retain high performers with cost-effective sales incentive compensation solutions.
We offer expertise in reasonableness of compensation, specifically regarding marital dissolution matters and IRS challenges.
Leverage our web-based recruitment tool to effectively communicate the complete value of your benefits to candidates.
Put the tedious process of developing effective and compliant job descriptions in our hands.
Base Compensation Program Development
Design and implement a compensation structure that aligns with your goals, talent strategy, and business performance.
Build a Strong Compensation Foundation
Providing market-based, competitive compensation is a cornerstone best practice for reducing turnover, boosting morale, and enhancing employee performance. We help clients develop and implement a customized base pay structure that ensures pay levels for jobs are externally competitive and internally equitable.
Executive & Board of Directors Compensation
Leverage our expertise to analyze and optimize executive and board of director compensation.
Attract the Best Executives in the Market
Well-designed executive compensation programs are critical to attracting, retaining, and rewarding top executive talent. Our team develops custom executive compensation strategies to fit your business’s unique culture, address your key performance drivers and ensure compliance with ever-changing regulations.
Sales Incentive Compensation
Attract and retain high performers with cost-effective sales incentive compensation solutions.
Balance Retention & Your Bottom Line
Companies often adjust their sales plan each year, and it’s important for sales compensation to evolve accordingly. CBIZ Compensation Consulting provides cost-effective solutions to ensure your offerings and incentives are aligned with business objectives. Our consultants follow a proven plan design process, resulting in compensation plans that attract, retain, and motivate top sales talent.
Litigation Support
We offer expertise in reasonableness of compensation, specifically regarding marital dissolution matters and IRS challenges.
Resolve Reasonable Compensation Issues
Marital dissolution cases with closely-held companies tend to involve discussions regarding compensation, especially when one or both parties are employed by the company. In addition, the IRS is increasingly focused on ensuring compensation deductions are reasonable. In both instances, the question of reasonableness is of high importance. CBIZ offers reasonable compensation expertise in family law, valuation, IRS challenges, and immediate sanctions.
Total Compensation Job Offers
Leverage our web-based recruitment tool to effectively communicate the complete value of your benefits to candidates.
Convey the Value of Your Total Rewards
CBIZ Total Compensation Offers (TCOffers), our web-based recruitment tool, helps you demonstrate the total value of your organization’s benefits package to potential candidates. In addition to maximizing the recruiting value of your benefits, TCOffers features ATS data extraction, custom branding options, candidate modeling, and other helpful tools.
Job Description Writing
Put the tedious process of developing effective and compliant job descriptions in our hands.
Craft Impactful Job Descriptions
Writing job descriptions can be time-consuming and tedious. Let us handle this task and help your organization develop meaningful, compliant job descriptions that make an impact.
CBIZ Launches Comprehensive Employee Experience Guide to Help Businesses Unlock the Full Potential of Their People
Unlock your organization’s potential with the CBIZ Employee Experience Guide. Discover strategies to attract, engage, and retain top talent.
Why Choose CBIZ Compensation Consulting?
CBIZ Compensation Consulting offers the best of both worlds: the power of a national compensation consulting organization paired with the low overhead and personal service of a boutique company. Our access to rich data resources, use of industry-leading methodologies, and agile structure allows us to provide high-quality compensation analyses and innovative solutions at competitive prices.
Our compensation consultants look beyond external market data to provide distinct recommendations tailored to your company’s specific needs. We develop compensation plans and total rewards programs that meet and exceed evolving business demands and employee expectations.