=== JOB DETAILS ===

SALARY: $50,357.00 - $88,125.00 Annually
LOCATION: Wake County, NC
JOB TYPE: Permanent Full-Time
JOB NUMBER: 65020536-08312021
DEPARTMENT: State Board of Elections
DIVISION: State Board of Elections
OPENING DATE: 08/30/2021
CLOSING DATE: 9/27/2021 5:00 PM Eastern
POSITION NUMBER: 65020536
SECTION: Election Services
SALARY GRADE: GN12

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===




Repost: Previous applicants are still under consideration.

MAX SALARY: $60,475

PRIMARY PURPOSE OF THE ORGANIZATION AND ELECTION ADMINSTRATION TEAM:

The State Board of Elections oversees the enforcement of the federal and state laws, rules and procedures governing the conduct of elections voter registration, and campaign finance activities in North Carolina.  The Election Administration unit develops and manages processes, procedures, and policies for the conduct by the State Board of Elections and county boards of elections.  Specific programs include voter registration, absentee voting, in-person voting, candidate filing, petitions, and other areas or special programs specific to election administration.

PRIMARY PURPOSE OF THE POSITION:

Voter Registration Program Specialist will have extensive knowledge of election administration and voter registration.  They will perform detailed planning and preparation and all administrative work associated with North Carolina Elections law in assuring that the voter registration program in North Carolina is carried out.  Performs work in assuring that registering to vote is available through the appropriate channels to all eligible citizens and that the registration process is administered by all North Carolina county boards of elections.  Work involves consulting with election program stakeholders internal to and external to the agency, and considerable analysis and interpretation of data and trends in the program area of assignment.


Description of Work:

Develops and reviews procedures, instructions, forms, and program materials for voter registration, including assisting counties in implementation, administration, and compliance of voter registration procedures, laws, and regulations. Performs work coordinating with the legal division of the State Board of Elections in providing registration forms, correspondence and processes compliant with NVRA and with General Statute 163. Performs work with the State Election Information Management System (SEIMS) infrastructure team in assuring that the application process in the SEIMS database is compliant in all 100 counties.  Collaborates with the communications division to develop and maintain web content and other public documents pertaining to these areas. Collaborates with public service agencies in assuring that all are in compliance with NVRA regulations and processes. Works with development, implementation, and maintenance of online voter registration application services. Assists counties and state board of election staff with voter registration list maintenance.

Supervise and work with program assistant and seasonal temporary workers to carry out program standards and objectives.







Thorough knowledge of North Carolina election law, rules, and directives and federal election laws, acts, and programs, particularly pertaining to voter registration.

Must demonstrate leadership, planning, program administration, and organizational skills.

Considerable understanding of SEIMS voter registration-related modules and other related technology.

Ability to interpret, apply, and communicate statutory regulations of the program area.  

Ability to analyze, interpret, recommend, and implement policy and procedural guidelines.

Ability to instruct and explain standards and procedures.

Ability to develop/ written documents/oral presentations and/or reports conveying information and to communicate effectively.

Skills in communicating effectively with program stakeholders. Must be able to develop and maintain effective working relationships with associates, other State officials and the general public. 

Ability to provide supervision to program assistant, as well as a small, seasonal staff of temporary assistants.

Ability to work independently, use sound judgement in making decisions, and be an effective team member.

Management Preferences:

Certified North Carolina Elections Administrator preferred.

Certified Elections Registration Administrator (CERA) preferred.





Bachelor's degree, preferably with an emphasis in public policy, political science, business administration or closely related area from an appropriately accredited institution, and four years of administrative and/or technical experience in a public program as it relates to the area of assignment; or Associate's degree in business administration or closely related area from an appropriately accredited institution, and six years of administrative and/or technical experience in a public program as it relates to the area of assignment; or High school or General Educational Development (GED) diploma and eight years of progressive administrative and/or technical experience in a public program as it relates to the area of assignment; or an equivalent combination of education and experience.

Do you have at least four years administrative and/or technical experience in a public program?
 Yes

 No


Do you have considerable knowledge of the State Election Information Management System or other related technology?