=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Application Developer - Journey
Salary: $93,665.94 - $118,726.82 YEAR
Location: WA 98057-2906, WA, WA, 98104
Employer: King County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2024-01-22
Job Type: Career Service, Full Time, 40 hrs/week
Job Number: 2024RL20941
Department: KCE - King County Elections
Division: Technical Services
Opening Date: 01/22/2024
Closing Date: 2/12/2024 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Exempt
Bargaining Unit: C19 : PROTEC17-Information Tech
Full- or Part-Time: Full Time
Hours/Week: 40 hours/week

BENEFITS:
  • Excellent medical, dental, and vision coverage options: King County provides eligible employees with options, so they can decide what’s best for themselves and their eligible dependents
  • Life and disability insurance: employees are provided basic coverage and given the opportunity to purchase additional insurance for both the employee and eligible dependents
  • Retirement: eligible King County employees may participate in a pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems and a 457(b) deferred-compensation plan
  • Transportation program and ORCA transit pass
  • 12 paid holidays each year plus two personal holidays
  • Generous vacation and paid sick leave
  • Paid parental, family and medical, and volunteer leaves
  • Flexible Spending Account
  • Wellness programs
  • Onsite activity centers
  • Employee Giving Program
  • Employee assistance programs
  • Flexible schedules and telecommuting options, depending on position
  • Training and career development programs

For additional information about employee benefits, visit our
Benefits, Payroll, and Retirement Page
.
This is a general description of the benefits offered to eligible King County employees, and every effort has been made to ensure its accuracy.  If any information on this document conflicts with the provisions of a collective bargaining agreement (CBA), the CBA prevails.
NOTE:
Benefits for Term Limited Temporary (TLT) or Short Term Temporary (STT) positions, including leave eligibility and/or participation in the pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems, will vary based upon the terms and details of the position. Short Term Temporary positions are not eligible for an ORCA transit pass.
For inquiries about the specifics of this position, please contact the recruiter identified on this job posting.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

This is an amazing opportunity to be engaged in the election process!

King County Department of Elections is searching for an energetic and resourceful professional who likes to "get stuff done." The Applications Developer - Journey position in the Elections Department combines an exciting environment with the opportunity to cultivate talents and apply a variety of skills. The ideal candidate will thrive in an innovative, fast-paced environment and will not hesitate to roll up both sleeves, work hard, have fun, and get the job done.
 
The Elections IT team is looking for a Journey Applications Developer to aid us in the migration of our small Windows applications to WebApps and help make a difference. This role involves maintaining and developing software solutions in the Microsoft ecosystem. Using the latest versions of .Net, you will develop solutions supporting Election’s business functions across the agency.  The ideal candidate will have C# skills and be versed in Visual Studio development tools.  
 
Who We Are:  King County Elections (KCE) manages voter registrations and elections for more than 1.4 million voters in King County, one of the largest vote-by-mail counties in the United States. KCE's mission is to conduct accessible, secure, and accurate elections. As a leader in providing inclusive elections, KCE is focused on core values of accuracy, equity, integrity, service, teamwork, and transparency. The team at KCE is committed to ensuring all King County voters can get registered, cast their ballot, and make their voices heard. Learn more at www.kingcounty.gov/elections.aspx.
 
Who May Apply: This position is open to all qualified applicants.  Applications will be screened for qualifications and completion of all the required materials and forms. Applications will be reviewed as received and the most competitive applicants may be contacted for further steps in the selection process.
 
Materials Required to Apply:  A completed online King County employment Application, a Resume, and Cover Letter are required and should be attached before submitting your application.  The cover letter should describe how your skills and experience meet or exceed the requirements of the job.
 
Work Location(s): This position is located at Renton Elections Building, 919 SW Grady Way, Renton, WA 98057.
 
Work Schedule: This position is exempt from the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) and is not overtime eligible. The workweek is typically 40 hours per week, 7:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. Candidates are required to be available to work additional hours, typically evenings, during the Election cycle and as needed to support the business or to respond to service issues or failures.

Support, migrate, develop, and test software solutions using Microsoft .NET platform with Microsoft Visual Studio with oversight from a more senior developer.
Modernize, implement updates, diagnose, and fix bugs in current applications.  
Develop and maintain documentation for applications and systems, maintain the code base in Azure DevOps.  
Write end-user documentation and/or provide application-specific training to end users, as needed.
Develop web-based applications using React and other modern JavaScript frameworks. 
Work directly with end-users and business managers to obtain user requirements, use cases, present conceptual design to users, take input, and be a conduit during user testing.
Aid in the updating and changes needed to move Windows applications to WebApps hosted either in the data center on virtual servers or in Azure cloud-based services.
Use of MS-SQL queries and stored procedures and creating custom reports.

Working knowledge within the Microsoft development stack using several of the following technologies: Microsoft Visual Studio, C#, Microsoft ASP.NET MVC, Microsoft ASP.NET Web API, .Net Core, Microsoft Entity Framework 6+, AJAX, HTML, JavaScript, React / Angular frameworks, and CSS.  
Working knowledge in .NET development with some proficiency in the Microsoft Enterprise Suite – C#, .NET, and Visual Studio.  
Familiarity with cloud integration and Microsoft Azure – App Service, Logic Apps, Service Bus, API Management, and Functions.  
Working knowledge in NoSQL and non-relational data storage designs.  
Ability to work independently as well as collaboratively in a team environment.  
Ability to creatively come up with new and useful ideas and solutions.
Strong analytical skills: ability to synthesize information.
Ability to quickly learn new processes, technologies, or development skills. 
 
Desired Qualifications:

Working knowledge in .Net Core JavaScript/React.  
Prior experience in public sector and/or a desire to work in public service. 

Travel to work locations throughout King County with limited or no public transportation services is required. A valid Washington State Driver's License is required to operate King County vehicles.
 
Union Representation: This position is represented by Protec17 - IT
 
Hybrid Work Environment
The work associated with this position will be performed through a combination of mandatory onsite work complemented with telecommuting work and meetings as needed. Employees must reside in Washington state and within a reasonable distance to their King County worksite to respond to workplace reporting requirements.
 
Employees will be provided with a County issued laptop and must maintain a workspace with an internet connection (access may be supplemented in some situations) where they can reliably perform work and remain available and responsive during scheduled work hours.
   
King County has a robust collection of tools and resources to support working remotely. The individual selected for this opportunity will be joining an innovative and progressive team that is redefining how we work as we transition to the department's hybrid environment.  
   
Forbes recently named King County as one of Washington State's best employers.
            
Together, with leadership and our employees, we're changing the way government delivers service and winning national recognition as a model of excellence.  Are you ready to make a difference? Come join the team dedicated to serving one of the nation's best places to live, work and play.
   
Guided by our "True North", we are making King County a welcoming community where every person can thrive.  We value diversity, inclusion and belonging in our workplace and workforce. To reach this goal we are committed to workforce equity. Equitable recruiting, support, and retention is how we will obtain the highest quality workforce in our region; a workforce that shares and will help advance our guiding principles--we are one team; we solve problems; we focus on the customer; we drive for results; we are racially just; we respect all people; we lead the way; and we are responsible stewards. We encourage people of all backgrounds and identities to apply, including Native American and people of color, immigrants, refugees, women, LGBTQ+, people living with disabilities, and veterans.
    
King County is an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Employer
No person is unlawfully excluded from employment opportunities based on race, color, religion, national origin, sex (including gender identity, sexual orientation and pregnancy), age, genetic information, disability, veteran status, or other protected class. Our EEO policy applies to all employment actions, including but not limited to recruitment, hiring, selection for training, promotion, transfer, demotion, layoff, termination, rates of pay or other forms of compensation.
 
To Apply 
If you are interested in pursuing this position, please follow the application instructions carefully. If you need this announcement in an alternate language or format, would like to request accommodation or assistance in the application or assessment process or if you have questions please contact your recruiter listed on this job announcement.
   
For more information regarding this recruitment, please contact: 
     Reeshema Lewis
     Sr. HR Business Partner
     Email:  Reeshema.Lewis@kingcounty.gov 