The City of San Mateo (pop. 105,661) is the largest municipality in San Mateo County, located on the San Francisco Bay Peninsula. This culturally and economically diverse community offers an extraordinary quality of life characterized by safe neighborhoods, quality city services and assets, friendly people, and an ideal location. The City’s increasingly vibrant and walkable downtown area continues to attract a wide array of small-to-medium-sized businesses, some of which, according to community members, include many of the best dining options in the Bay Area. The municipality has benefitted from a steady history of leadership, with just five city managers over the last 30 years and three city attorneys over the last 36 years. The current City Clerk is retiring from her position after twelve years and the City is focused on hiring a qualified candidate that is outgoing, reliable, and professional with an adaptive, solution-based work ethic. The incoming City Clerk must have excellent interpersonal skills, with the ability to remain politically astute without being politically aligned. A kind, uplifting, and approachable candidate will be successful in this role. The ideal candidate will value the community and possess high emotional intelligence as an ambassador of the City and liaison to the public. The nature of this position requires an individual who is creative, discerning, and constantly striving to improve.
Qualified candidates possess the equivalent to a bachelor’s degree from an accredited college or university with emphasis on public or business administration, political science, public relations, or a related field. At least five (5) years of experience in a City Clerk’s office, or other related public sector setting, including at least two (2) years at a supervisory/management level managing complex projects, elections, economic filings, records management, staff supervision and general office administration. The attainment of City Clerk certification through the International Institute of Municipal Clerks at either the certified or master level or the ability to attain this certification within two (2) years of appointment is highly desirable.
The annual salary range for the City Clerk is $195,288.96 to $215,306.08; placement within this range is dependent on qualifications and experience.