=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: CERTIFICATION AND TRAINING LEAD
Salary: $55,524.00 - $74,604.00 YEAR
Location: Thurston County – Olympia, WA, WA, 98504
Employer: State of Washington
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2022-03-24
Job Type: Full Time - Permanent
Job Number: 22 EL PS4 0663
Department: Office of the Secretary of State
Division: Elections
Opening Date: 03/24/2022
Closing Date: 4/10/2022 2:00 PM Pacific

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===



The Office of Secretary of State (OSOS) offers some of the most unique and diverse job opportunities in state government. Its critical responsibilities include: ensuring a fair and accurate elections process; connecting Washingtonians through the power of libraries; protecting our important government records; and registering corporations and charities. The Secretary of State also administers vital community programs that inspire giving, document our history, and assist crime survivors in avoiding further abuse. This independent office under the state Constitution operates from facilities in the Olympia area and statewide.

The OSOS is looking for top-performing employees who embody its core values of integrity, service excellence, visionary leadership, collaboration and teamwork. It is committed to both employee growth and work-life balance. The benefits of working in state government also include potential eligibility for the federal Public Service Loan Forgiveness program.

The Elections Division plays a critical role in ensuring Washington's democratic process is fair, accurate, accessible, and secure. Elections staff provide valuable services to voters, as well as statutorily required training and certifications to election administrators in all 39 counties. The division develops elections policy, administers our statewide voter registration database and VoteWA system, manages statewide elections, and verifies and accepts petitions for initiatives and referenda.
 
Program Specialist 4
Full-time, Permanent

 
The certification and training program oversees, directs, and advises County Auditors in interpretations of federal and state election law and the correct administration of voter registration and elections throughout the state.  The certification and training program reviews county practices for adherence to election law and best practices, provides essential tools for election administrators through official communications and training, and acts as liaisons for the Office of the Secretary of State.
This position reports to the certification and training program manager and is responsible for overseeing, reviewing and advising county auditors on the federal and state elections laws and the administration of voter registration.

 
**Please note:  Interviews for this position will be conducted on an ongoing basis. First review of applicants will begin on March 31, 2022. It is in the candidates best interest to apply as soon as possible. The hiring manager reserves the right to fill the position at any time. 


 


PRIMARY RESPONSIBILITIES

 Lead program specialist in the Elections Certification and Training Program
 

Identifies and meets the training needs of county auditors and election departments
Develops an annual training schedules of in-person and remote opportunities
Conducts analysis of legislative changes
Plans and develops curriculum
Designs and maintains comprehensive educational materials
Researches and identifies eLearning technologies to complement current training materials
Facilitates project management for training opportunities across the state
Develops and publishes a variety of advisories for use by elections professionals such as County Auditors, county election administrators, the Public Disclosure Commission, candidates, political party representatives, the press, and the public to ensure that elections are conducted according to state law
Arranges for guest speakers
Conducts elections 101 orientation training
Coordinates and conducts elections training of Secretary of State and county elections staff
Provides templates, forms, and educational materials to county election administrators
Assists with logistical arrangements for facilities and accommodations
Makes presentations at training opportunities for Secretary of State staff, county election administrators, political party observers, and county canvassing board
Assist in planning the annual Election Conference – developing an agenda, selection of speakers, vendor coordination, and logistical arrangements
Evaluates implementation of state and federal election law at the local level
Advises and instructs county election administrations on state and federal law

Participates in the elections administration certification program and the county election review program; certifies state and local election administrators following a series of classes and tests and travels extensively throughout the state to conduct reviews of the county elections departments
 
Independently reviews initial and renewal applications to determine whether the training qualifies for credit towards certifications
Administers certification tests
Issues certificate to qualified participants
Visits counties to observe election practices
Reviews written election materials prepared by the counties
Reviews written and observed procedures for compliance with state and federal election law
Reviews written and observed procedures for improvements based on best practices
Makes recommendations to counties that conforms with state and federal election law and best practices
Prepares publicly available review reports on the findings of the review

Provides support to Washington State counties on election processes, VoteWA, and logic and accuracy test program
 
Researches and accurately responds to county questions
Conducts logic and accuracy tests at county election offices: reviews test patterns for acceptance within allowable standards; presides over test to ensure accuracy and test uploads for results; creates remediation plan for failures


Miscellaneous


Staffs the Election Administration and Certification Board, comprised of county auditors, the Secretary of State, and state legislators
Ensures the assigned areas of the Elections website are accurate, functioning and up-to-date
Assists in development of WACs and RCWs
Acts as back-up to other Elections Division programs
Other duties as assigned





REQUIRED QUALIFICATIONS
 

Four years of experience providing support to staff or a program in elections administration including, but not limited to, interpreting policy and instructing others on application of policies, representing a program or office to clients, composing correspondence, scheduling appointments and meetings, working cooperatively with political party representatives, elected officials, election administrators, and the press and public in sensitive situations 
Ability to efficiently use a personal computer and applicable software to successfully perform the essential functions of the position
Current Washington State driver’s license or have requested and obtained an appropriate accommodation
 

PREFERRED/DESIRED QUALIFICATIONS
 
Bachelor’s degree and two years of experience in interpreting policy and instructing others on application of policies, representing a program or office to clients, composing correspondence, scheduling appointments and meetings, working cooperatively with political party representatives, elected officials, election administrators, and the press and public in sensitive situations
Certified Election Administrator in Washington State
Experience working in an elections office 
Experience preparing and delivering presentations to small and large groups
Excellent communication skills, both written and verbal
Demonstrated ability to effectively communicate with individuals and groups regarding complex or controversial public policy issues or service


WORKING CONDITIONS
 

Works primarily in an office environment, but does require traveling in a vehicle for extended periods of time
Must be willing and able to sit for 4 or more hours a day
Must be willing and able to move and maneuver objects weighing up to 30 pounds with or without reasonable accommodation


SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS/CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT 
 
This position is covered by a union, Washington Federation of State Employees (WFSE)
Certification as an Elections Administrator within two years of employment
This position is deemed essential to the critical infrastructure to support the business needs within the Elections division
Per Governor Inslee's Proclamation 21-14 (Download PDF reader) (Download PDF reader) (Download PDF reader) (Download PDF reader), employees at the Office of the Secretary of State must be fully vaccinated by February 25, 2022.  Your vaccine status will be verified by Human Resources prior to your first day of employment.  Please contact Gretchen Barocio at hr@sos.wa.gov, if you need information on medical or religious accommodation   
 

HOW TO APPLY

To be considered for this position you must attach the following: current resume and letter of interest describing how your experience and qualifications relate to the duties and qualifications of the position and three professional references.


You must complete the supplemental questions at the end of this application.  Incomplete responses such as "see resume" will not be considered.  In addition, if the employer you identify in the additional information section is not included on your resume or work experience profile and/or you do not identify an employer, you will not receive credit. 

All veterans must include a copy of your DD214 to receive preference in the hiring process.  You must black out your social security number before attaching it to your application.

The Office of the Secretary of State is an equal opportunity employer (EOE). We do not discriminate on the basis of religion, age, gender, marital status, color, creed, national origin, political affiliation, military status, gender identity, sexual orientation, or any sensory, mental or physical ability. All interested candidates are encouraged to apply. Persons of disability needing assistance in the application process, or those needing the announcement in alternative format, should call (360) 704-5210.

More than Just a Paycheck!Employee benefits are not just about the kind of services you get, they are also about how much you may have to pay out of pocket. Washington State offers one of the most competitive benefits packages in the nation.We understand that your life revolves around more than just your career. Like everyone, your first priority is ensuring that you and your family will maintain health and financial security. That's why choice is a key component of our benefits package. We have a selection of health and retirement plans, paid leave, staff training and other compensation benefits that you can mix and match to meet your current and future needs.Read about our benefits:The following information describes typical benefits available for full-time employees who are expected to work more than six months. Actual benefits may vary by appointment type or be prorated for other than full-time work (e.g. part-time); view the job posting for benefits details for job types other than full-time.Note:  If the position offers benefits which differ from the following, the job posting should include the specific benefits. Insurance BenefitsEmployees and their families are covered by medical (including vision), dental and basic life insurance. There are multiple medical plans with affordable monthly premiums that offer coverage throughout the state.Staff are eligible to enroll each year in a medical flexible spending account which enables them to use tax-deferred dollars toward their health care expenses. Employees are also covered by basic life and long-term disability insurance, with the option to purchase additional coverage amounts.To view premium rates, coverage choice in your area and how to enroll, please visit the Public Employees Benefits Board (PEBB) website. The Washington Wellness program from the Health Care Authority works with PEBB to support our workplace wellness programs.Dependent care assistance allows the employee to save pre-tax dollars for a child or elder care expenses.Other insurance coverage for auto, boat, home, and renter insurance is available through payroll deduction.The Washington State Employee Assistance Program promotes the health and well-being of employees.Retirement and Deferred CompensationState Employees are members of the Washington Public Employees' Retirement System (PERS).  New employees have the option of two employer contributed retirement programs.  For additional information, check out the Department of Retirement Systems' web site.Employees also have the ability to participate in the Deferred Compensation Program (DCP).  This is a supplemental retirement savings program (similar to an IRA) that allows you control over the amount of pre-tax salary dollars you defer as well as the flexibility to choose between multiple investment options.Social SecurityAll state employees are covered by the federal Social Security and Medicare systems. The state and the employee pay an equal amount into the system.Public Service Loan ForgivenessIf you are employed by a government or not-for-profit organization, and meet the qualifying criteria, you may be eligible to receive student loan forgiveness under the Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program.Holidays Full-time and part-time employees are entitled to paid holidays and one paid personal holiday per calendar year.Note: Employees who are members of certain Unions may be entitled to additional personal leave day(s), please refer to position specific Collective Bargaining Agreements for more information.Full-time employees who work full monthly schedules qualify for holiday compensation if they are employed before the holiday and are in pay status for at least 80 nonovertime hours during the month of the holiday; or for the entire work shift preceding the holiday. Part-time employees who are in pay status during the month of the holiday qualify for the holiday on a pro-rata basis. Compensation for holidays (including personal holiday) will be proportionate to the number of hours in pay status in the month to that required for full-time employment, excluding all holiday hours. Pay status includes hours worked and time on paid leave.Sick Leave Full-time employees earn eight hours of sick leave per month. Overtime eligible employees who are in pay status for less than 80 hours per month, earn a monthly proportionate to the number of hours in pay status, in the month to that required for full-time employment. Overtime exempt employees who are in pay status for less than 80 hours per month do not earn a monthly accrual of sick leave. Sick leave accruals for part-time employees will be proportionate to the number of hours in pay status, in the month to that required for full-time employment. Pay status includes hours worked, time on paid leave and paid holiday.Vacation (Annual Leave)Full-time employees accrue vacation leave at the rates specified in WAC 357-31-165(1) or the applicable collective bargaining agreement (CBA). Full-time employees who are in pay status for less than 80 nonovertime hours in a month do not earn a monthly accrual of vacation leave.Part-time employees accrue vacation leave hours in accordance with WAC 357-31-165(1) or the applicable collective bargaining agreement (CBA) on a pro rata basis. Vacation leave accrual will be proportionate to the number of hours in pay status, in the month to that required for full-time employment.Pay status includes hours worked, time on paid leave and paid holiday.As provided in WAC 357-58-175, an employer may authorize a lump-sum accrual of vacation leave or accelerate the vacation leave accrual rate to support the recruitment and/or retention of a candidate or employee for a Washington Management Service position. Vacation leave accrual rates may only be accelerated using the rates established WAC 357-31-165.  Note: Most agencies follow the civil service rules covering leave and holidays for exempt employees even though there is no requirement for them to do so. However, agencies are required to adhere to the applicable RCWs pertaining holidays and leave.Military LeaveWashington State supports members of the armed forces with 21 days paid military leave per year.Bereavement Leave Most employees whose family member or household member dies, are entitled to three (3) days of paid bereavement leave. In addition, the employer may approve other available leave types for the purpose of bereavement leave.Additional LeaveLeave SharingParental LeaveFamily and Medical Leave Act (FMLA)Leave Without PayPlease visit the State HR Website for more detailed information regarding benefits.Updated 12-31-2022


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Where did you hear about this job opening?
        
        
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Do you have a family member or relative employed at the Office of the Secretary of State?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        If you answered Yes in the previous question, what is the name of your family member/relative?
        
        
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have providing support to staff or a program including but not limited to, interpreting policy and instructing others on application of policies, representing a program or office to clients, interacting with members of the public, composing correspondence, scheduling appointments and meetings, or coordinating events?
        
        
                4+ years of experience
                2-3 years of experience
                1-2 years of experience
                Less than 1 year of experience
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Please describe your experience in reference to question #4 including where and when you gained the experience and the tasks and skills you obtained to gain this experience.  If you do not have this experience, please write "N/A" in the box below.
        
        
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        How many years of demonstrated experience do you have in a team environment working towards accomplishing your own goals and those of the team, in roles both as a team member and a leader?
        
        
                3+ years of experience
                2-3 years of experience
                1-2 years of experience
                Less than 1 year of experience
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Please describe your experience in reference to question #6 including where and when you gained the experience and the tasks and skills you obtained to gain experience. If you do not have this experience, please write "N/A" in the box below.
        
        
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have in an elections environment or elections-related field?
        
        
                2+ years of experience
                1-2 years of experience
                Less than 1 year of experience
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        Please describe your experience in reference to question #8 including where and when you gained the experience and the tasks and skills you obtained to gain experience. If you do not have this experience, please write "N/A" in the box below.
        
        
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        Do you have knowledge of federal and Washington State election laws?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

11

    

    
        This position has a requirement to be physically in the office, which is located in Olympia, WA. Are you able to do this?  Please answer YES or NO.
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

12

    

    
        PLEASE READ THE BELOW AND TYPE YOUR INITIALS IN RESPONSE TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT YOU HAVE READ AND UNDERSTAND THESE STATEMENTS. • I will NOT attach or place my vaccination status within the application, resume, or cover letter. If I do, I understand that it will be rejected and I will be provided an opportunity to apply again without including my confidential health information. • I understand that my vaccination status is not needed until I am offered employment for the job for which I am applying. After a job offer is made, the Human Resources Office will contact me to review my vaccination status. Individuals unable to receive the COVID-19 vaccination due to medical condition(s) and/or sincerely held religious beliefs will have an opportunity to request an exemption and engage with Human Resources to explore what if any reasonable accommodations are available for the job you may be offered. • I will not share my vaccination status with hiring managers or interview panels
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        