=== JOB DETAILS ===

SALARY: $59,752.00 - $104,566.00 Annually
LOCATION: Wake County, NC
JOB TYPE: Permanent Full-Time
REMOTE EMPLOYMENT: Flexible/Hybrid
JOB NUMBER: 65022162-01022024
DEPARTMENT: State Board of Elections
DIVISION: State Board of Elections
OPENING DATE: 02/02/2024
CLOSING DATE: 2/23/2024 5:00 PM Eastern
JOB CLASS TITLE: Elections Investigator
POSITION NUMBER: 65022162
SECTION: Legal
SALARY GRADE: NC18

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Supervising Investigators 

Coordinate with agency legal counsel to prioritize and plan investigations consistent with the Elections-Related Investigation Priorities Policy. 
Apply knowledge of elections and campaign finance laws, policies, and procedures, as well as knowledge of investigatory techniques and methods, to direct and assign casework to elections investigators. 
Review written investigative reports to ensure case findings are clearly and logically presented to law enforcement partners and prosecuting authorities. 
Coordinate presentation of cases in grand jury settings, court, and State Board of Elections hearings. 
 
Case Management 

Maintain a case management system and provide investigation statistics to management as needed. 
Conduct short- and long-range planning to ensure that alleged violations are investigated in a timely manner and that violations are referred to the State Bureau of Investigation and prosecutors within the relevant statutes of limitations for remedial action. 
 
Conduct Investigations 

Perform independent, technical, investigative work. 
Gather and analyze evidence and prepare investigative reports. 
Prepare evidence for hearings and court proceedings. 
Coordinate with agency legal counsel, law enforcement partners, prosecutors, and judicial staff to provide testimony in hearings and court proceedings. 
 
Foster Relationships with Internal and External Partners 

Develop and maintain effective professional relationships with State Board elections personnel, county elections personnel, law enforcement personnel, prosecutors, emergency management personnel, and the general public. 
Provide training and guidance to county personnel and law enforcement personnel at conferences and other meetings. 
Communicate clearly, concisely, and professionally, both orally and in writing. 
	 
 

Working knowledge of laws pertaining to elections, campaign finance, and the collection and admissibility of evidence and courtroom procedures.
Working knowledge of the methods, procedures, and practices used in the investigation of criminal offenses.
Working knowledge of elections processes, systems, procedures, and campaign finance regulations. 
Ability to establish and maintain good working relationships with state and county board of elections personnel, law enforcement officials, court officials, election organizations, and the public.
Ability to investigate election irregularities and violations, analyze and interpret financial data, prepare comprehensive and detailed reports pertaining to individual cases, maintain and prioritize a case load, present effective court testimony, and apply the principles, techniques, and procedures of modern criminal investigations.
Ability to apply the election statutes and criminal statutes of North Carolina to investigations, evidence collection, legal processes, grand jury and courtroom procedures and practices.
Ability to develop and execute an investigative plan.
Considerable interviewing skills.
Ability to supervise, plan and direct the work of all subordinate personnel. 
Ability to implement a performance plan and monitor the competition of objectives. 
Ability to manage staff working in remote, hybrid, and in-person environments. 
Proficient in the use of Microsoft Office Word and Excel, and available criminal and private databases, and open source databases including social media.
Ability to communicate effectively both orally and in writing with the public, management, court officials, and in testimonial and presentation formats.
Ability to maintain confidentiality.
Ability to work independently and as a team. 

Bachelor's degree in Criminal Justice, Accounting, Business Administration, Public Administration, or related field from an appropriately accredited institution and four years of law enforcement experience, preferably focusing on white collar crime; or an equivalent

I have read and understand the recruitment range for this position is $59,752 - $82,159 and is based on education, experience, and funding availability.
 Yes

 No
