=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Election Manager
Salary: $74,214.40 - $123,968.00 YEAR
Location: Rochester, MN, MN, 55904-3710
Employer: Olmsted County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2024-05-31
Job Type: Regular Full-Time
Department: Property Records & Licensing
Opening Date: 06/01/2024
Closing Date: 6/14/2024 11:59 PM Central
FLSA: Exempt
Hours of Work: 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday
Union: Employee's Association

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Recognized as one of the best places to work in Southeast Minnesota for three consecutive years, at Olmsted County every role helps to foster a vibrant community where everyone thrives. Our employees are at the heart of everything we do, driving public service excellence and community well-being.

We don’t just offer a job, we offer a career filled with purpose, growth, and fulfillment. Our benefits package ensures your wellbeing, while career advancement opportunities and professional development empower you to reach your full potential.

Join us, and you'll be part of a purpose-driven team where your work truly makes a difference. Together, we build a sustainable, healthy, and welcoming community.

Bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university in political science, business administration, public administration or related field and two (2) years of experience in a similar position as listed in the work functions.

OR

A combination of education and experience equivalent to six (6) years of experience in a similar position as listed in the work functions.

Regular and reliable attendance is a necessary component of job/position. Individuals required to use County vehicles and equipment must have a valid driver's license and be free of any major traffic violations for the last three (3) years.

Required Special Qualifications:

Obtain Election Administration Certification in Minnesota within one (1) month of employment.
Must be able to work evening and weekend hours as needed to administer elections.

Desirable Qualifications:

Experience administering county elections.
Supervisory and/or management experience.

Under general supervision, is responsible for ensuring the integrity of Olmsted County elections. Manages the core services of the Elections Division including voter registration, conducting elections, election judge education, redistricting, and voter education and outreach. Supervises staff, ensures statutory compliance, and oversees implementation of processes to conduct all elections within the county. Collaborates and engages with outside agencies, vendors, and municipalities regarding process and program changes. Works evening and weekend hours as needed.

Manages the work of elections staff. Recommends and authorizes hiring, transfer, suspension, promotion, discharge, assignments, rewards or discipline of employees, direction of the work and adjustment of other employees’ grievances on behalf of the employer.
Acts as chief election administrator for the county as directed by the County Auditor.   Advises on election issues and core services.
Plans, coordinates, and manages the elections held in Olmsted County and ensures compliance with all federal, state, county, city, and district election laws.
Develops, conducts, and evaluates training for election judges and elections staff.
Implements division initiatives, reports results, and assists with the development and implementation of department strategic goals and objectives.
Interprets and communicates legislative and regulation updates.
Develops, updates, and implements policies and procedures.
Maintains election systems and equipment, verifies compliance, and makes modifications for legislative changes and business requirements.
Balances and certifies elections and submits reports as required by Minnesota State Law.
Attends meetings and participates in county, local, and state committees as a representative of Olmsted County.
Oversees the historical preservation, maintenance, storage, and destruction of elections records.
Performs related work as assigned.

Thorough knowledge of election and voter registration laws, requirements, and procedures.
Knowledge of MN Government Data Practices Act and the laws governing how to respond and data eligible to release.
Skill in planning, organizing, and prioritizing work.
Skill in effective verbal and written communication including presentations and public speaking.
Skill in the use of computers and technology including election equipment.
Skill in performing work with accuracy and attention to detail.
Ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships with others.
Ability to accomplish work in a timely manner and meet deadlines.
Ability to read and interpret state statutes.
Ability to evaluate, analyze, and resolve problems.
Ability to make independent decisions.

Persons with disabilities: the above is a general listing of job duties. Essential and non-essential functions may vary by individual position. Reasonable accommodations may be available for both essential and non-essential job duties.

Physical Demands and Work Environment: In compliance with Americans with Disabilities Act, the following represents the Physical and Environmental Demands:

Function:

	

24% or Less

	

25% - 49%

	

50%-74%

	

75% or more




Office environment

	
	
	
	

X




Sitting

	
	
	
	

X




Standing, walking

	
	

X

	
	



Reaching, crouching, kneeling, stooping

	

X

	
	
	



Lifting up to 20 pounds

	

X

	
	
	



Typing/data entry

	
	
	

X

	



Talking, hearing

	
	
	

X

	



Operate vehicle

	

X

	
	
	



Close vision

	
	
	

X

	



Distance vision, depth perception

	

X

	
	
	



Color vision

	
	

X

	
	



Sedentary (exert up to 10 pounds of force)

	
	
	

X

	



Light effort (exert up to 20 pounds of force)

	

X

	
	
	


An Equal Opportunity Employer

Additional Considerations

This is a Rochester, MN based position and is not remote eligible at this time.
International relocation or international remote working arrangements (outside of the US) will not be considered.
Applicants for this position must be currently authorized to work in the United States.
Olmsted County does not sponsor applicants for this position.

Provisional employees are eligible for benefits if employment is projected to be 12 months or longer and work at least 40 hours per pay period.This document is a brief Summary of Benefits for Olmsted County Employees on the Paid Time Off Program.Paid Time OffEmployees over .5 FTE accrue Paid Time Off (PTO) based on their length of service as follows:First year to 5 years of service - accrue up to 23 days6 to 10 years of service - accrue up to 25 days11 to 15 years of service - accrue up to 27.5 days16 to 20 years of service - accrue up to 30 days21 to 26 years of service - accrue up to 32.5 daysOver 26 years of service - accrue up to 35 daysEmployees begin accruing PTO on their first day of work and can use it as soon as accrued with supervisor approval.Flexible Leave TimeAll regular, full-time employees and part-time employees who are scheduled to work at least twenty (20) hours or more per week on an ongoing basis shall receive up to 24 hours (prorated by FTE) of paid FTL at their regular base pay each calendar year.Commencement of Employment                     # of FLT HoursBetween January 1 and June 30                    24 HoursBetween July 1 and August 31                       16 HoursBetween September 1 and November 30       8 HoursBetween December 1 and December 31        0 HoursPaid HolidaysOlmsted County recognizes the following legal holidays:New Year's Day, Martin Luther King Jr. Day, President's Day, Memorial Day, Juneteenth, Independence Day, Labor Day, Veteran's Day, Thanksgiving Day, Day after Thanksgiving, Christmas Eve (4 hours when December 24th falls on a Monday – Thursday only), Christmas DayEmployee Health and Insurance BenefitsHealth, Dental, Basic Life, Health Care Spending Account and Dependent Care Spending Account become effective the first of the month following 30 days of employment.Health InsuranceThe self-insured Olmsted County Employees’ Health Plan is administered by Medica. Under the plan, eligible employees and their dependents have access to all providers in the Medica Health Plan Solutions network, including Mayo Clinic and Olmsted Medical Center. Members have access to a travel network through First Health.The plan offers a comprehensive preventive care program to help protect the health of employees and their dependents, flat dollar co-payments for office visits and emergency room visits, e-visit coverage, 80% co-insurance on most services (after deductible) and a 24-hour health information services line staffed with experienced Medica nurses 365 days a year.There is a base in-network deductible of $1,375/person, $4,125/family with the opportunity to earn up to four $250 rewards to lower the deductible to a minimum of $375/person, $1,125/family. In-network out-of-pocket maximum is $2,800/employee, $5,600/family.Coverage is available for employees and their eligible dependents.The monthly rates for healthcare coverage are as follows:Health Insurance RatesSingle health coverage monthly cost to the employee is $110.00 per month or $55.00 per pay period. Employee Plus One coverage monthly cost to the employee is $546.00 per month or $273.00 per pay period. Family coverage monthly cost to the employee is $690.00 per month or $345 per pay period.Prescription Drug PlanThe Olmsted County Employees’ Health Plan prescription drug benefit is part of the health plan and is administered by Alluma. Covered prescrip-tions are based on the Alluma Formulary. The plan contracts with Express Scripts to provide a national network. This allows members to receive prescriptions conveniently at home, or across the country, for the same co-insurance amount. Retail prescriptions have a 25% co-insurance (34-day supply) with a $5 minimum and $200 maximum charge. Mail order prescriptions have a 22% co-insurance with a $5 minimum and a $500 maximum charge. Both retail and mail order prescriptions apply toward an annual $2,400/person ($4,800/family) out of pocket limit.Dental InsuranceThe Olmsted County Dental Plan is self-insured and administered by Delta Dental. Coverage includes Diagnostic & Preventive Services – 100%; Basic Services - 80%; Major Restorative Services - 50%; and Orthodontics - 50%. Lifetime maximum for Orthodontics is $1,500 per eligible dependent child. Diagnostic and Preventive Services do not apply to the yearly individual maximum benefit of $1,500. There is a $50 deductible per family member per year, with a maximum of $150 per family. The deductible does not apply for Diagnostic and Preventive Services.Coverage is available for employees and their eligible dependents.Single dental coverage monthly cost to the employee is $0.00 per month.  Employee Plus One coverage monthly cost to the employee is $19.00 per month or $9.50 per pay period.  Family coverage monthly cost to the employee is $47.00 per month or $23.50 per pay period.Life InsuranceThe County paid Basic Life Plan is group term guaranteed issue life insurance up to two times employee’s annual salary rounded to the nearest $1,000 to a maximum of $300,000. Olmsted County also pays 100 percent of enrolled dependent coverage costs for the following life benefits:                                                   Spouse: $2,000Children up to age 26: $1,250Voluntary Life InsuranceThe cost of employee and spouse Voluntary Life Insurance coverage is determined by age and the amount of coverage. This coverage would be in addition to what employees receive under the Basic Life Plan.New employees who enroll within 30 days of eligibility may select up to $250,000 in life insurance coverage and up to $50,000 for their spouse without answering any health questions. Employees may apply for additional life insurance in $5,000 increments up to a maximum of $500,000. Spouses may apply for additional life insurance in $5,000 increments up to a maximum of $250,000.New employees can also elect child life insurance without having to answer any health questions. The cost of life insurance is $1.30 per month, regardless of the number of children covered. The coverage amount is $10,000 per child.PERA Life InsuranceEmployees can purchase guaranteed issue group term life insurance coverage through the Voluntary Group Life Plan with the National Conference on Public Employees Retirement Systems (NCPERS) in which Olmsted County is a participant. It is underwritten by The Prudential Insurance Company of America and administered by Member Benefits.Cost is $16.00 per month with no medical questions asked.Short Term Disability InsuranceThe County provides a short-term disability benefit of 80 percent pay replacement for up to 150 calendar days based on medical need. Short-term disability benefits are effective on the 181st calendar day of employment and are pro-rated based on the eligible employee’s Full Time Equivalence (FTE).Long Term Disability InsuranceThe County provides 40 percent pay replacement coverage. Employees have the option to purchase an additional 26 2/3 percent pay replacement coverage for a total of 66 2/3 percent. Long-term disability benefits are effective on the 181st calendar day of employment.Employee Assistance ProgramDeer Oaks, Olmsted County’s Employee Assistance Program (EAP), is a confidential service to help employees and their families address work and life issues. Online and telephone resources are available 24/7/365. Flexible Spending Accounts Employees have the option of using one or both flexible spending accounts provided through Olmsted County to pay for out-of-pocket health care expenses and day care expenses with pretax dollars.Health Care Spending Account limit is $3,050.Dependent Care Spending Account limit is $5,000.Blood Assurance ProgramA Volunteer Blood Donor Program through Mayo Clinic Blood Bank is available to employees. It covers the employee and family for all red blood cell products.Workers CompensationAll employees are covered by Workers Compensation insurance while performing County business.RetirementOlmsted County and employees pay into the Public Employees Retirement Association (PERA) as follows:General Plan: Employee Share is 6.50%, County Share is 7.50%Police & Fire Plan: Employee Share is 11.80%, County Share is 17.70%   Correctional Plan: Employee Share is 5.83%, County Share is 8.75%General Plan members pay into both PERA and Social Security. Deferred Compensation PlansOlmsted County employees may choose to participate in Deferred Compensation Plans (457 Plans) offered through: Empower Retirement Services, VOYA Financial, Nationwide Retirement Solutions, and Minnesota Deferred Compensation Plan.Years of Service AwardsOlmsted County recognizes employees for milestones in their years of service (5, 10, 15, 20, 25 and above).Direct DepositAll employees are paid bi-weekly. Employees’ paychecks are electronically deposited directly into employees’ bank accounts, avoiding situations like late checks or inconvenient trips to the bank.United Way DonationIf an employee requests, the County will deduct contributions to United Way through payroll deduction.Staff Development ProgramThe Staff Development Program offers courses online and in the classroom. The purpose is to train and retain employees through educational opportunities.Tuition ReimbursementOlmsted County offers tuition reimbursement for college courses of 80% or $3,000 (whichever is less) per year with prior approval from supervisor and Human Resources for job-related courses.Olmsted County has partnered with Saint Mary's University to offer employees a 10% tuition grant and waived application fee for qualifying classes.As a Local Government, Olmsted County is a qualified employer for the Public Service Loan Forgiveness Act. Go to StudentAid.Gov to learn more about this program and see if you qualify.Credit UnionEmployees are invited to join the First Alliance Credit Union. For more information, call the Credit Union at (507) 288-0330 or (800) 866-1999.Parking/Transit PlanParking for Government Center employees is available employee parking lots. The County supports public transportation. Employees who ride the bus to and from work and during work hours are offered subsidized bus passes.Jury DutyEmployees required to report for jury duty or attend a trial in response to a subpoena will do so without loss of income. Employees will receive their regular pay during their court service.