=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Manager - Elections (Prescott)
Salary: $57,991.79 - $73,939.54 YEAR
Location: Elections - Prescott, AZ, AZ, 86305
Employer: Yavapai County Government
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2022-05-18
Job Type: Full Time - Exempt
Job Number: 202200239
Department: Elections
Opening Date: 05/18/2022
Closing Date: 5/31/2022 5:00 PM Arizona

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Under minimal supervision, oversees the day-to-day operations of the Elections Annex location and supervises assigned staff.

The following EXAMPLES OF DUTIES are NOT intended as a comprehensive list of job functions/duties performed by individuals assigned to this classification. The following provides a representative summary of the major duties and responsibilities. Incumbent(s) may not be required to perform all duties listed and/or may be required to perform additional, position-specific, duties. 


Coordinate all logistical activities for obtaining and equipping the County's polling locations.
Test and maintain all voting equipment and test ballots, following Federal and State requirements.
Recruit, interview, hire, and terminate Elections Seasonal staff in consultation with Director.
Supervise, train, and evaluate assigned staff members.
Manage the schedule, workflow, and accuracy of assigned seasonal employees.
Prepare and monitor budget for area(s) of assignment. 
Assist Director in developing policies, procedures, and long-term strategies for department. 
Actively liaisons with federal and state governments, elected officials, other County departments, candidates, and political parties to ensure elections law compliance.
Review and evaluate proposed state and federal legislation.
Draft and present proposed statutory and Election Procedures Manual changes to state laws governing elections.
Keep the Director informed of key operating issues affecting the department.
Perform other job-related duties as assigned.

Experience: 
A minimum of four (4) years' administrative/supervisor experience with two (2) years in Elections or related field.

Education: 
Associate's degree in public administration, project management, business administration or related field. An equivalent combination of directly related work experience and education may substitute for the degree requirement on a year per year basis.

Other Requirements:

Must be a registered voter of Yavapai County.
Must possess a valid Arizona Driver’s License without restrictions.
Certified Arizona Election Officer (A.R.S. § 16-407) attainable within two years of hire.
Must be eligible to become a commissioned Arizona Notary.

Required Knowledge, Skills and Abilities:

Knowledge of:

Election laws, procedures, and administration.
Election equipment and systems.
Election audit methods.
Adult learning theory.
Modern office practices, methods, computer equipment and applications related to the work.
Staff supervision and leadership.
ADA Accessibility needs as it relates to Election administration.
Budget and procurement procedures and regulations.
Records management and retention requirements.
Skill in:
Working with and training individuals with diverse levels of technical knowledge. 
Spelling, vocabulary, grammar, and punctuation.
Advanced oral and written communication.
Project management. 
Time management. 
Critical thinking, decision making, and problem-solving.
Training small and large groups of adults.
Ability to:
Work without supervision at off-site location. 
Work extensive additional hours during preparation and conducting elections, to include weekends and holidays.  
Remain neutral on political topics.
Achieve 100% accuracy in Election administration.
Review, analyze and interpret state and federal laws and other requirements affecting elections.
Analyze and project division needs to meet peak demands during election cycles.
Maintain physical and cyber security.
Maintain data integrity.
Maintain budget guidelines and project future expenditures.
Attend specialized elections training to remain current with election laws and procedures. 
Attend and make presentations before professional and civic organizations.
Create and analyze reports and databases.
Maintain a professional, competent, accurate and dependable manner in all situations.
Establish and maintain election calendar.
Prioritize work, meet essential election deadlines, and make independent decisions.  
Work on several projects concurrently.
Protect confidential information and maintain strict confidentiality.


Work Environment:
Work is performed in varied environments throughout the workday. Work is done in a light industrial warehouse and office setting.  Site visits, evaluating, delivery, and pickup to various locations throughout Yavapai County is also performed. Work is performed in a climate controlled, safe, and secure work environment.

Physical Requirements:
Ability to stand or sit for extended periods.
Standing in and walking between work areas is frequently required.  
Ability to perform repetitive motions for extended periods. 
Capable of overhead lifting; ability to occasionally lift and carry items up to 50 pounds; push/pull materials up to 200 pounds with the use of assistive equipment.
Sit or stand while using a computer or other equipment.
Sufficient vision to read printed materials and a computer screen.
Hearing and speech ability to communicate effectively in person and telephonically.   
Capable of frequent repetitive movement of arms, fingers, and wrists.  

EMPLOYEE BENEFITSYavapai County Government offers a comprehensive employee benefits package toFull-Time employees working 30 or more hours per week that includes but is not limited to:·  10 Holidays Per Year·  Annual Leave·  Employee Assistance Program (EAP)·  Health Care Insurance – Medical, Dental, Vision·  Life Insurance·  Long-Term & Short-Term Disability·  Retirement Plans·  Sick Leave·  Tuition Reimbursement Program ELECTIVE COVERAGE·  457 Deferred Compensation Program  ·  Dependent Health Care Insurance - Medical, Dental, Vision·  Flexible Spending Account (FSA)·  Health Savings Account (HSA)·  Short-Term Disability                                                                ·  Supplemental Life (for employees & dependents) PLEASE NOTE·      Part-Time, Temporary and Seasonal employees accrue Sick Leave based on hours worked.·      Part-Time employees have limited benefits available.·      Temporary and Seasonal employees are not eligible to accrue Annual Leave.Click here to view our benefits summary. (Download PDF reader) 


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Do you have a minimum of four (4) years' administrative/supervisor experience with two (2) years in Elections or related field.
        
        
                YES
                NO
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Do you have an Associate's degree in public administration, project management, business administration or related field?
        
        
                YES
                NO
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        