=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections &amp; Voter Registration Director
Salary: $99,902.00 - $119,007.00 YEAR
Location: Athens, GA, GA, 30601
Employer: Unified Government of Athens-Clarke County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2026-01-25
Job Type: Full Time
Job Number: 2026-3009
Department: Board of Elections
Division: Board of Elections
Opening Date: 01/26/2026
Closing Date: 2/23/2026 11:59 PM Eastern

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===





CLICK HERE for further information about the Unified Government, and the Athens-Clarke County community.

APPLY: Do not send resumes in lieu of a completed application. The online application is available at www.accgov.com/jobs.  

We hope you will take time to explore this opportunity to join a highly professional local government organization and a progressive, vibrant community in the heart of sunny Northeast Georgia just 65 miles from Atlanta. Home of the University of Georgia, Athens is nationally-recognized for its high quality of life, state-of-the-art educational opportunities, endless outdoor recreation, and cultural amenities such as arts, entertainment, music, and food. If this opportunity is for you, we invite you to apply, or to pass on this information to others who might find this position of interest.

REPORTS TO: Athens-Clarke County Manager
FLSA STATUS: Exempt - Executive
CLASSIFICATION: Regular Non-Merit; Serves at the discretion of the Manager.
PAY GRADE: 130
SAFETY SENSITIVE: No

Purpose of Job
The purpose of this position is to serve as the Chief Registration Officer and Election Supervisor for Athens-Clarke County, ensuring the lawful, secure, and transparent administration of all voter registration and election activities. The Director provides strategic leadership and operational oversight of election planning, voter registration, ballot preparation, election equipment, polling locations, and results certification in compliance with federal, state, and local laws. This role manages staff and budget, oversees process improvements and emergency preparedness, and maintains accurate and accessible election records. The Director serves as a key advisor and partner to the Board of Elections, collaborates with state and local stakeholders, and acts as a visible spokesperson to strengthen voter education, engagement, and public confidence in the electoral process.

Job Related Requirements
Work Schedule:  Monday - Friday 8:00 - 5:00 with regular evenings and weekend work to support active elections.

May be required to work after hours, weekends, and on religious holidays.

Regular and predictable attendance is required.

Must work cooperatively with others. 

When requirements include vehicle operation, responsible for the safety, readiness and operation of the vehicle and must abide by ACC's safe driving policy.

Bachelor's Degree in Political Science, Public Administration or related field with five years of election process or related experience required; or any equivalent combination of education, training, and experience which provides the requisite knowledge, skills, and abilities for this position.

Five years of supervisory experience is required.

Must be registered as a Notary Public, within six months of hire.

Georgia Election Official Certification is required.

Must be able to obtain 12 hours annual continuing education as required by state law.

Must possess a valid driver's license.

The following duties are normal for this job. These are not to be construed as exclusive or all-inclusive. Other duties may be required and assigned.

Planning and Voter Registration
Maintains high level knowledge of federal, state, and local laws as they relate to the conduction of elections and voter registration; implements procedural changes when required.

Attends state required training sessions concerning voter registration and election laws, and election equipment.

Supervises the petition process to include Nomination and Recall petitions.

Receives notices of candidacy and qualifying fees.

Maintains current election map for districts; assigns all voters to their respective districts; makes final decision as to voters districts; and, oversees reapportionment and redistricting assignments.

Works with stakeholders including the Board of Elections, Secretary of State’s Office, and public safety partners to develop and regularly update an emergency operations plans specific to elections activities. 

Maintains and provides voter registration lists for the City of Winterville and the City of Bogart; conducts and certifies the City of Winterville's elections.

Prepares and/or directs the preparation of reports including reports to the media, elected officials, committees, Secretary of State Elections Division, and Athens-Clarke County Board of Elections members.

Reviews all directives, advisories, memoranda, correspondence, and materials issued by the 
Secretary of State and take action as required by those communications.

Serves as Filing Officer for candidates, as required by the Ethics in Government Act, including receiving and inspecting campaign financing disclosure reports; maintains and audits reports for public inspection; notifies candidates of filing dates and technical violations; notifies State Ethics Commission of candidates qualifying for election; notifies commission of those who fail to file reports and collect fines for late reporting.

Reviews existing processes for improvement, maintaining compliance with law changes, evaluates and redesigns forms and materials used at the polls and office as needed.

Oversees Safe, Secure, and Transparent Elections
Calculates and determines the qualifying fees for candidates for county offices; receives and inspects notices of candidacy, determines qualification of candidates; accepts affidavits, and qualifying fees from candidates.

Recruits, trains, and supervises poll workers, trainers, and equipment delivery teams.

Receives and proofs database from the Georgia Center for Elections prior to each election, downloads memory cards for voting machines, assigns memory cards to units and precincts, labels and package for Logic and Accuracy Testing.

Prepares ballots, sample ballots, and absentee ballots; coordinates and supervises the tabulation of ballots and the preparation of certified election results.

Selects and equips accessible election day polling places with election equipment, notices, and workers to ensure election laws are being maintained.

Coordinates early voting activities prior to each election cycle, and determines locations/number of additional sites, staffing, training, security, and publicity.

Secures, notifies, and instructs Vote Review Panels prior to each election.

Coordinates and supervises the tabulation of ballots, preparation of certified election results, announcement of election results on election night, and the consolidation and certification of results to the Secretary of State.

Coordinates, advertises, prepares, and conducts the Logic and Accuracy testing of all election equipment before each election.  Answers questions raised by the Grand Jury when attending the testing process.

Supports Voter Engagement, Outreach and Education
Serves as a visible spokesperson for election integrity and voter confidence. 

Leads proactive community engagement initiatives, including voter education campaigns and school/civic outreach.

Prepares and publishes election notices as required by law, including submitting pre-clearance matters to the United States Justice Department and legal notices for publication.

Maintains accurate voter registration records, and provides data as requested. 

Maintains the departmental web page.

Ensures timely, comprehensive, and accurate responses to open records requests. 

Collaborates with the Board of Elections
Attends all board meetings and hearings held by the Board of Elections including complaints about the election process or voter registration; testifies in court regarding lawsuits filed against the Board of Elections; and, presents an update of office activity at each quarterly Board meeting.

Serves as the staff liaison between the board and ACCGov entities such as the Clerk of Commission, Attorney’s Office, and Communications Department to ensure vacancies are filled in a timely manner and the board complies with the Open Meetings and Open Records components of state and federal laws. 

Collaborates with the Board Chair to develop meeting agendas and supporting materials.

Supports the board in the process of on-boarding new board members.

Presents options and recommendations for items requiring board approval. 

Supports the planning and implementation of an annual board retreat.

Administrative Oversight
Maintains custody of records of all elections, registration information, campaign contribution reports and financial statements.

Supervises/evaluates assigned staff, handles all employee concerns, directs work assignments, counsels and disciplines employees when necessary, completes employee performance appraisals, develops, interprets, trains staff in and enforces operations, policies, and procedures.

Develops an annual budget for office and all elections; executes the approved budget; submits supplemental budget requests, as necessary.

Reviews employee time sheets, payroll, and incident reports to ensure accuracy, and provide follow-up action as needed.

Establishes and implements department goals, objectives, policies, and operating procedures.

Develops long-term plans for election technology upgrades, redistricting, and resource needs. 

Trains and deputizes deputy registrars; coordinates the actions of county departments that support primaries and elections.

Develops course material, plans, coordinates and conducts training sessions for poll workers.

Creates and presents all agenda items for Mayor and Commission approval (Setting of qualifying fees, precinct changes, etc.).

Performs other related duties as required.

Knowledge, Skills and Abilities
Knowledge of the principles, practices and procedures of the Athens-Clarke County Unified Government and the operations and functions of the Board of Elections Department.

Knowledgeable of all applicable federal, state and municipal laws, legal opinions, and relevant court case decisions associated with the electoral process.

Knowledge of best practices for ensuring voter information is accessible, accurate, and transparent.

Knowledge of streets, district lines, and voting precincts in Athens-Clarke County.

Knowledge of requirements and best practices for all mailed absentee ballots.

Knowledge of the Reapportionment and Redistricting process.

Knowledge of emergency operations planning specific to elections.

Knowledge of software programs and proficiency with computers.

Knowledge of management, human resource management/personnel, and financial practices, policies and procedures as necessary in the completion of daily responsibilities.

Knowledge of all applicable laws, ordinances, policies, standards and regulations pertaining to the specific duties and responsibilities of the job.

Knowledge of ballot chain-of-custody procedures, post-election audits, and reconciliation best practices.

Knowledge of any changes in policy, methods, operations, budgetary and equipment needs, etc. as they pertain to departmental and human resource/personnel operations and activities.

Knowledge of the statewide voter registration program, photo ID software, election night reporting software, GIS, and other state and federal software/programs used in the elections industry.

Skills in proactive community outreach, voter education campaign development, and public-facing transparency efforts.

Skills in board support functions, including agenda development, onboarding of members, and retreat facilitation.

Ability to adapt and to perform in a professional manner under stressful or emergency situations.

Ability to comprehend a variety of informational documents.

Ability to develop and administer policies, procedures, plans and activities and to monitor performance of subordinates against measured established goals.

Ability to develop and implement long-term goals for the department in order to promote effectiveness and efficiency.

Ability to develop, maintain, and execute contingency plans for election-day disruptions or emergencies.

Ability to effectively communicate and interact with subordinates, management, employees, elected officials, local and national media, attorneys, members of the public and all other groups involved in the activities of the Athens-Clarke County Unified Government as they relate to the Board of Elections and Elections Department.

Ability to assemble information and make written reports and documents in a concise, clear, and effective manner.

Ability to make presentations before a large audience, citizen advocacy groups, other election officials throughout the state, small groups, and school children.

Ability to use independent judgment and discretion in managing subordinates including the handling of emergency situations, determining and deciding upon procedures to be implemented, setting priorities, maintaining standards, and resolving problems.

Ability to comprehend, interpret, and apply laws, regulations, procedures, and related information.

Ability to perform mathematical and statistical calculations.

Ability to read, understand and interpret personnel and financial reports and related materials.

Ability to use, understand and apply election law terminology.

Has good organizational, management, human relations, and technical skills.

(ADA)MINIMUMQUALIFICATIONSOR STANDARDSREQUIREDTO PERFORM ESSENTIAL JOB FUNCTIONS


PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS: Must be physically able to operate a variety of machinery and equipment including a computer, adding machine, typewriter and fax machine. Must be able to use body members to work, move, or carry objects or materials. This position requires:  walking, bending, stooping, standing, pushing, pulling, lifting, fingering, grasping, feeling, seeing, talking, hearing, and repetitive motions. Must be able to exert up to 10 pounds of force occasionally. Physical demand requirements are at levels of those for sedentary work.

DATA CONCEPTION: Requires the ability to compare and/or judge the readily observable functional, structural, or compositional characteristics (whether similar to or divergent from obvious standards) of data, people, or things.

INTERPERSONAL COMMUNICATION: Requires the ability to hear, speak and/or signal people to convey or exchange information. Includes giving/receiving assignments and/or directions to co-workers, assistants and volunteers/from supervisors.

LANGUAGE ABILITY: Requires ability to read a variety of financial statements, reports, lists and informational documentation, directions, instructions, and methods and procedures. Requires the ability to prepare spreadsheets, lists, reports, press releases, letters and rosters using prescribed formats and conforming to all rules of punctuation, grammar, diction, and style. Requires the ability to speak to people and groups of people with poise, voice control, and confidence.
 
INTELLIGENCE: Requires the ability to learn and understand complex principles and techniques; to acquire and be able to expound on knowledge of topics related to primary occupation; and to make independent judgment in the absence of management.

VERBAL APTITUDE: Requires the ability to record and deliver information, to explain procedures, and to follow oral and written instructions. Must be able to communicate effectively and efficiently in a variety of administrative, technical or professional languages including legal and Georgia Election Code terminology.
 
NUMERICAL APTITUDE: Requires the ability to utilize mathematical formulas; add and subtract totals; multiply and divide; utilize determine percentages; design multiple spreadsheets.

FORM/SPATIAL APTITUDE: Requires the ability to inspect items for proper length, width, and shape, visually with a computer, adding machine, typewriter and fax machine.

MOTOR COORDINATION: May require the ability to coordinate hands and eyes in using computer, adding machine, typewriter and fax machine equipment. Requires the ability to use the keyboard, lift, push, bend and pull objects or materials using body parts as the position necessitates.

MANUAL DEXTERITY: Requires the ability to handle a variety of items such as computer, adding machine, typewriter and fax machine. Must have the ability to use one hand for twisting or turning motion while coordinating other hand with different activities. Must have minimal levels of eye/hand/foot coordination.

COLOR DISCRIMINATION: Requires the ability to differentiate between colors and shades of color.

INTERPERSONAL TEMPERAMENT: Requires the ability to deal with people beyond giving and receiving instructions. Must be adaptable to performing under moderate stress when confronted with an emergency.

PHYSICAL COMMUNICATION: Requires the ability to talk and/or hear: (Talking - expressing or exchanging ideas by means of spoken words). (Hearing - perceiving nature of sounds by ear). Must be able to communicate via telephone.

ACCGov is an equal opportunity employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, disability, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, veteran status, or genetic information. ACCGov is committed to providing access, equal opportunity, and reasonable accommodation for individuals with disabilities in employment, its services, programs, and activities. To request reasonable accommodation to participate in the job application or interview process, contact Leah Jagatic, HR Coordinator, Human Resources, 762-400-6370 or leah.jagatic@accgov.com.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Which best describes your highest level of education?
        
        
                Some High School
                High School diploma or GED from an institution accredited by SACS
                Some education beyond high school
                Technical or Vocational Degree
                Associate Degree
                Bachelor's Degree
                Master's Degree
                Doctorate Degree
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        If you have an advanced degree, please indicate your field of study.
        
        
                Political Science
                Public Administration
                Other
                I do not have an advanced degree.
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        If you selected other for the discipline of your degree, please specify your degree below.
        
        
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have in the election process?
        
        
                None
                Some but less than two years of experience.
                Two years or more, but less than four years of experience.
                Four years or more, but less than five years of experience.
                Five years or more, but less than seven years of experience.
                Seven years or more, but less than nine years of experience.
                Nine years or more, but less than thirteen years of experience.
                Thirteen years or more of experience.
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Please indicate below how many years of supervisory experience you have.
        
        
                None
                Less than one year.
                One or more, but less than three years.
                Three or more, but less than five years.
                Five or more, but less than seven years.
                Seven or more, but less than ten years.
                Ten years or more of experience.
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        How many employees have you supervised?
        
        
                None
                1 to 5
                5 to 9
                10 to 14
                15 to 19
                20 or more
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Indicate below the types of activities you've performed in your direct supervisory experience.
        
        
                None
                Evaluate assigned staff.
                Handle employee concerns.
                Direct work assignment.
                Complete employee written performance appraisals.
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Do you possess a Georgia Election Official Certification? If so, please attach a copy to your application.
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        Please indicate your Notary Public status.
        
        
                I am a Notary.
                I have the ability and am willing to become a Notary.
                I am not currently nor will I become a Notary.
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        You must be able to obtain 12 hours annual continuing education as required by state law. Will you be able to adhere to this requirement?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

11

    

    
        Do you possess a valid Driver's License?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        