=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Supervisor
Salary: $41.00 - $52.11 HOUR
Location: Tacoma, WA, WA, 98409
Employer: Pierce County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2026-01-22
Job Type: Career Service - Full Time
Remote Employment: Flexible/Hybrid
Job Number: 26-00063
Department: Auditor
Division: Auditor-Elections
Opening Date: 01/22/2026
Closing Date: 2/5/2026 11:59 PM Pacific

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

This position requires you to work on-site for the first six months of employment. After that, there may be an opportunity for a hybrid schedule, depending on business needs.

Why It's a Great Opportunity: 

Pierce County Elections is seeking an experienced election professional to join our growing team. This new position will oversee the Voter Registration team and play a key role in helping Pierce County establish two additional vote centers, expanding beyond our current location.

You will have a strong understanding of the technology and processes involved in voter registration and elections. This expertise will be essential in providing guidance, feedback, and performance evaluations to our award-winning team. You will work under the direction of the Elections Manager and help ensure the success of our operations.

Why It's a Great Department: 

Pierce County Elections is responsible for maintaining voter registration rolls, conducting federal, state, and local elections, verifying petition signatures, publishing a local Voters' Pamphlet, and managing precinct lines. With over 590,000 active registered voters, we conduct four elections each year and serve 114 jurisdictions. Our team is responsible for managing election logistics for over 500 elected offices in Pierce County.

How to be Successful in the Role: 

We are looking for someone passionate about election integrity, democracy, and innovation. The ideal candidate will have a deep understanding of federal, state, and local election laws and regulations. You will apply independent judgment and make effective decisions that impact our election processes. Strong communication skills are essential, as you will interact with voters, staff, and stakeholders at all levels of the organization.

Your Future in this Role: 

As the Elections Supervisor, you will have the opportunity to make an immediate impact on the success of the division. You will receive coaching and guidance from experienced leadership, work within a collaborative and supportive team, and be part of an organizational culture that values continuous learning and professional growth. You will also have the chance to influence statewide election practices by networking with other counties, participating in advisory committees, and working closely with the Elections Manager on key policy decisions.

Core Daily Responsibilities: 

Ensure consistent interpretation and compliance with laws, rules, policies and procedures.
Manage the daily functional and administrative operations of the division.
Implement, advise, and monitor the development, measurement, and execution of the mission, goals, and objectives of the County, department, division and individual work groups.
Supervise the activities of the Elections Division staff to include, schedules, workflow; performance evaluations, training and investigate grievances, recommend hiring, promotional and disciplinary actions; approve leave requests, and overtime; and assure adequate coverage.
Provides technical assistance to staff in answering questions and resolving problems related to elections and voter registration.

A classification description with a more detailed list of essential functions can be found here.

An equivalent combination of experience and education including two years in a supervisory or lead position may substitute for the recruiting requirements on a year for year basis
Four years of progressively, responsible office and operational experience
Two years of supervisory or lead experience
Please attach a current resume and cover letter with your application. Failure to attach these will result in an incomplete application

Preferred Qualifications

Two years full time work experience in an Elections Division and Certification as an Elections Administrator under (WAC) and (RCW) regulations is highly preferred
Experience working in a lead or supervisory role and Certification as an Elections Administrator under (WAC) and (RCW) regulations are preferred

Special Note: Certification as an Election Administrator under the Washington Administrative Code (WAC) and Revised Code of Washington (RCW) regulations is required within two years in this position

As a condition of employment, the applicant will need to authorize and complete a background check. Information received from the background check is reviewed case-by-case and will not necessarily remove an applicant from consideration.

To be considered for this opportunity please:

Complete and submit an online Pierce County Employment Application by selecting "APPLY" above or go to:   www.piercecountywa.gov/jobs.
If you have a question about this opportunity, please email the Recruitment Team at PCHRRecruit@piercecountywa.gov and specify the Job Number and Title.
If you do not have internet access, you may visit your local public library or any WorkSource location and use their computers.
Individuals needing accommodation in the application, testing process, or need this job announcement in an alternative format may call Human Resources at (253) 798-7480, at least two days prior to the need.

This is a competitive selection process. Your application will be reviewed and evaluated for the quality and quantity of education/experience in the areas listed. Applicants whose qualifications most closely correspond to the County's needs will be eligible for further consideration. Notification of application status normally occurs 2 to 3 weeks after the closing date. Short notice may be given to applicants to participate in further selection processes which may include assessments, phone screen, and interviews.

At Pierce County, diversity, equity, and inclusion means commitment, not a single step. We strive to foster an inclusive environment that supports equitable access to opportunities throughout your career. We want to recruit, develop, and maintain a talented workforce from various backgrounds, cultures, lifestyles, and perspectives, committed to our vision.  Employees of the County have local, direct, and visible impact in our diverse community. Will you join us in keeping Pierce County a place people are proud to call home?

Employee benefits are not just about the kind of services you get, they are also about how much you may have to pay out of pocket. Pierce County offers a competitive benefits package that offers flexibility and peace of mind. We are proud to offer Employee Resource Groups, a focus on professional development in our Leadership Training Program, and a County Book Club. We understand that your life revolves around more than just your career and that your priority is making sure that you and your family maintain health and financial security. That's why choice is a key component of our benefits package. We have a selection of health and retirement plans, paid leave, staff training and other compensation benefits that you can mix and match to meet your current and future needs.Our benefits:Vacation (Annual Leave)After approximately six months, employees receive six days of vacation leave. Since we value your experience, the amount of vacation you can accrue increases the longer you work with us. Vacation accrues on a bi-weekly basis for full-time employees as follows:Vacation Accruals:During years 1-3, 12 DaysDuring years 4-7, 16 DaysDuring years 8-13, 20 DaysDuring years 14-18, 23 DaysDuring years 19, 24 DaysDuring years 20, 25 DaysDuring years 21, 26 DaysDuring years 22, 27 DaysDuring years 23, 28 DaysDuring years 24, 29 DaysDuring years 25 & thereafter, 30 DaysA maximum of 45 days may be carried from one year into the next.Pro-Rated for Part-Time based on % of 1.0 FTE.Military Leave:Pierce County has a proud history of supporting the armed forces and provides members of the armed forces with up to 21 days paid military leave per state fiscal year.Holidays:Some full-time employees are entitled to eleven paid holidays as follows:   New Year's Day - January 1Martin Luther King, Jr's birthday - Third Monday in JanuaryPresident's Day - Third Monday in FebruaryMemorial Day - Last Monday in MayJuneteenth - June 19Independence Day - July 4Labor Day - First Monday in SeptemberVeteran's Day - November 11Thanksgiving Day - Fourth Thursday in November & Friday afterChristmas Day - December 25Personal Holidays:Regular full-time and regular part-time employees, and employees occupying limited duration positions, shall also receive two additional paid personal holidays. Paid personal holidays shall only accrue for those employees on County payroll as of January 1 of each year or the first work day following January 1 and must be taken during the calendar year in which it was accrued.Furlough:Some Pierce County employees may be designated to receive 10 "furlough" days per year in lieu of holidays. Furlough days are available for use on January 1 and must be scheduled and taken within the calendar year. Employees who leave employment with Pierce County must reimburse the employer for used furlough days based upon the number of remaining holidays.Sick Leave:Sick leave accrues on a bi-weekly basis, at the rate of one day per month.Insurance Benefits:Employees and families are covered by medical (including vision), dental and basic life insurance. There are multiple medical plans with very affordable monthly premiums that offer coverage throughout Pierce County. Employees are eligible to enroll each year in a flexible spending plan, which enables them to use tax-deferred dollars toward their health care and dependent care expenses. Employees also have the opportunity to participate in supplemental life and long term disability insurance plans. To view premium rates, summary of benefit coverage, and other information, please visit the Pierce County Health Benefits website.Retirement and Deferred Compensation:Pierce County employees are members of the State of Washington's Department of Retirement System (DRS) and depending on the position or previous DRS enrollment will be able to enroll in one of many programs DRS offers. For additional information, check out the Department of Retirement Systems' web site.Employees also have the ability to participate in the Nationwide Deferred Compensation Plan.  This is a supplemental retirement savings program  that allows you control over the amount of pre-tax salary dollars you defer as well as the flexibility to choose between multiple investment options.Social Security:All Pierce County employees are covered by the federal Social Security and Medicare systems. The county and the employee pay an equal amount into the system.ORCA Passport ProgramPierce County employees may participate in the County's ORCA (One Regional Card for All) Passport program.Your Pierce County issued ORCA card is loaded with an annual Passport pass. The pass automatically renews every year. The pass will provide you with free transportation on regularly scheduled service on several public transit systems.Miscellaneous Benefits:Please visit Pierce County's Benefits website for more information.Telework/Remote Options:Some departments allow for telework or work-from-home options dependent on the body of work. Learn more about our telework policy here.**All employees are required to be WA State residents after 30 days of employment.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        How many years of office and operational experience do you have?
        
        
                None
                Less than 1 year
                1 year to less than 2 years
                2 years to less than 3 years
                3 years to less than 5 years
                5 or more years
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Do you have two years or more of experience as a supervisor or lead?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Have you attached a cover letter and resume? Failure to attach these will result in an incomplete application.
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        