=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Manager
Salary: $66,459.64 - $116,956.84 YEAR
Location: Alexandria, VA, VA, 22314
Employer: City of Alexandria
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2021-01-25
Job Type: Full-Time
Job Number: 2021-00384
Department: Voter Registration & Elections
Opening Date: 01/26/2021
Closing Date: 2/9/2021 11:59 PM Eastern
Bargaining Unit: N/A

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===




Elections Manager


 
An Overview

The City of Alexandria is looking for an Elections Manager to direct and coordinate the elections operation within the City. The Elections Manager's primary responsibility is to direct the security, maintenance, repair and transportation of voting machines to and from voting precincts, and to ensure accurate recording and accounting of votes. Responsibilities also include management of the absentee voting process, the hiring, placement and training of election officers, and overseeing the printing of ballots.  The work is performed under the general direction and guidance of the General Registrar.
 
 The Opportunity

Oversees the management of local, State and Federal elections, including ballot design and layout, equipment preparation and testing, and the development of training plans for election officers;
Manages the absentee voting process, including the operational aspect of the process;
Reviews, interprets and implements complex and continually changing laws, regulations and policies (local, State and Federal) relating to the election process, including accessibility issues;
Supervises election staff and manages the hiring, training and evaluation of staff;
Manages the campaign finance disclosure process for the City and determines when penalties are required;
Secures and manages the City's polling places, works directly with facility managers and ensures compliance with disability law and regulations;
Serves as the Acting General Registrar in the absence of the General Registrar;
Performs other related duties as required.


The Ideal Candidate
To qualify for this position, all candidates must be registered voters in Virginia; possess at least a bachelor's degree; and at least five (5) years of relevant experience; or any equivalent combination of experience and training which provides the required knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary for the position.
 

To be considered as an ideal candidate, one must also possess a bachelor’s degree or higher and at least five (5) years of experience administering an election process or similar activity with complex laws, rules and regulations; experience managing time sensitive projects that require a high degree of accuracy, experience supervising a large group of skilled individuals, knowledge of local, state and federal election laws, policies and regulations; and knowledge of voting technology, software and equipment.
 
About the Department
The Office of Voter Registration and Elections is responsible for conducting accurate, fair and transparent elections in Alexandria in accordance with the Constitution and laws of the United States and the Commonwealth of Virginia, and providing Alexandria voters the opportunity to participate in the electoral process. This includes maintaining an accurate list of registered voters, offering convenient absentee voting opportunities, recruiting and training election officers, preparing ballots and voting equipment, managing polling places, and certifying all election results within the City. The office also verifies candidate nominating petitions and ensures that candidates for local office file on-time campaign finance reports and provide full disclosure of the campaign's financial activities to the public.




The City of Alexandria is an Equal Opportunity Employer and values diversity in its workforce. All qualified candidates will receive consideration without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, personal appearance, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, family responsibilities, matriculation, political affiliation, genetic information, military status, or disability. 

We are proud to welcome you to explore the City of Alexandria's excellent benefits and programs!Click here to learn more about Employee BenefitsClick here to learn more about the City's Employee Development ProgramThe benefits referenced on this site, may be changed from time to time without notice. Also, temporary and some part-time positions are not eligible for these benefits. For further information, please contact the Benefits Division of the Department of Human Resources at 703.746.3785 or email DHR.Benefits@alexandriava.gov .


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Are you a registered voter in Virginia,; have a Bachelor's Degree; and at least three (3) years of public administration and supervisory experience managing complex, time-sensitive projects that require a high level of accuracy; or any equivalent combination of experience and training which provides the required knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary for the position?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Do you have at least five (5) years of experience performing work related to voter registration and elections in a public office?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        If so, please briefly explain your experience. (If you answered no, please enter NA).
        
        
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Do you have experience in voter registration and elections within Virginia?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Please indicate your years of Virginia voter registration and elections experience.
        
        
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Do you have experience supervising and managing a large staff?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        If so, please briefly explain your experience. (If you answered no, please enter NA).
        
        
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Do you have knowledge of voting technology, software and equipment?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        If so, please explain your familiarity and knowledge. (If you answered no, please enter NA).
        
        
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        This position requires the ability to work some evenings, occasional early morning and weekend. Are you willing and able to meet this requirement?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        