=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Services Specialist
Salary: $59,978.16 - $72,903.72 YEAR
Location: Contra Costa County, CA
Employer: County of Contra Costa
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2021-08-23
Job Type: Permanent Full-Time
Job Number: EBVA-2021A
Department: Clerk - Recorder
Division: Elections
Opening Date: 08/23/2021
Closing Date: 9/5/2021 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Non-Exempt
Bargaining Unit: 3R

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Why join the Contra Costa County, Clerk-Recorder's Office?
Are you an innovator and high achiever? Service driven? Dedicated to quality?

The Contra Costa County Clerk-Recorder’s Office, Elections Division is currently recruiting an Elections Services Specialist.

The Elections Services Specialist position will be assigned to one of the functional sections of the Elections Division as described below.

As a Voter Services Specialist you will:

Oversee and conduct daily processing of voter information in database systems
Lead and coordinate vote by mail functions including processing voter requests for ballots and signature verification of returned ballots
Supervise, review, and process examinations of petitions and conducts signature verification of petitions
Oversee the review of voter eligibility and assists in processing provisional ballots
Coordinate and provide phone, in-person, and email customer services
As a Candidate Services Specialist you will:
Lead the processing of candidate and measure filings
Oversee campaign finance reporting functions in a database system
Lead County Voter Information Guide development including formatting text in InDesign, coordinating translations of text, and proofreading materials
Provide phone, in-person, and email customer services
As a Precinct/Mapping Services Specialist you will:
Maintain spatial and tabular data in ArcGIS and a voter database
Perform queries and analyzes spatial and tabular data
Maintain, update, and proof spatial data, internal street guide, district boundaries, precincts, and other data
Prepare and provide map and data customer orders
Provide phone, in-person, and email customer services
As an Election Day Operations Specialist you will:
Coordinate planning processes related to the Election Day voting experience including supplies, staffing, and procedures
Lead the recruitment, placement, and management of poll worker and other volunteer workers
Lead volunteer tasks including vote by mail ballot extraction
Oversee and communicate with poll workers and volunteers via phone, email, and in-person including drafting correspondences and replying to questions
Maintain poll worker and volunteer records in an online database
As a Warehouse Operations Specialist you will:
Monitor and maintain item inventory using an electronic inventory management system
Oversee the packing of election supplies and equipment
Lead the returned vote by mail ballot scanning and sorting process
Lead the coordination and collection of vote by mail ballots from secure drop boxes and USPS
As an IT and Voting System Operations Specialist you will:
Lead programming, testing, and maintenance of voting and tabulation equipment
Lead ballot layout and ballot tabulation functions
Lead election results reporting and canvass processes
Update the Elections Division website, as directed
Contra Costa County is one of the state and nation’s largest counties and currently has more than 700,000 registered voters and a population of 1.1 million. Located in the San Francisco Bay Area, Contra Costa County offers great salary and benefits in addition to a collaborative and fast-paced work environment. If you have previous experience that includes tremendous overtime during an election, be prepared for a new experience.

We are looking for someone who is:
A collaborator. - You will need to seek input and feedback from teammates and work with other units on cross-functional projects to create high-quality work products.
A planner and organizer. - You will need to create project plans and calendars and ensure that work is completed according to plans.
Committed to continuous improvement. - You will contribute to advancing the work of your unit, the division, and the elections team by reviewing processes and identifying opportunities to improve.
A problem solver. - You will need to identify issues and offer solutions to resolve them promptly.
Committed to public service. - You will demonstrate your commitment through performing services in the public interest.
Adaptable. - You will need to balance multiple assignments and respond to changing priorities to ensure projects are completed on time.
Knowledgeable and experienced in election administration. - You will need to demonstrate your understanding of the election process and timelines.
What you will typically be responsible for:
Leading and guiding Election Services Technicians and temporary staff
Developing and implementing processes and procedures due to legislation or election code changes, system changes, procedures, or process improvements
Coordinating team members’ workloads to ensure critical tasks are accomplished by established deadlines
Completing complex and technical functions of the section
Leading assigned election functions and projects
A few reasons you might love this job:
You will serve your community through public service
You will have the opportunity to work in a collaborative team environment
You will have a chance to be a part of democracy in action
You will be part of a highly respected elections team
A few challenges you might face in this job:
Legislation and regulations regularly change therefore processes and procedures need to be regularly updated
During peak election times the number of temporary team members requiring direction, training, and feedback increases significantly
Teamwork expectations require supporting the work of other elections functions
Some schedule flexibility is required during peak election times

Competencies Required:
Adaptability: Responding positively to change and modifying behavior as the situation requires
Driving Results: Demonstrating concern for achieving or surpassing results against an internal standard of excellence
Teamwork: Collaborating with others to achieve shared goals
Displaying Ownership and Accountability: Holding self and others accountable for measurable high-quality, timely, and cost-effective results
Customer Focus: Attending to the needs and expectations of customers
Action & Results Focused (Taking Initiative): Initiating tasks and focusing on accomplishment
Attention to Detail: Focusing on the details of work content, work steps, and final work products
Using Technology:  Working with electronic hardware and software applications
Professional & Technical Expertise: Applying technical subject matter to the job
Business Process Analysis: Defining, assessing, and improving operational processes and workflow
Fact Finding: Obtaining facts and data pertaining to an issue or question
Informing: Proactively obtaining and sharing information
Innovative Problem Solving: Identifying and analyzing problems in order to propose new ways to do business
To read the complete job description, please click here.


The eligible list established from this recruitment may remain in effect for six (6) months.

License Required:
Candidates must possess a valid California Motor Vehicle Operator’s License.  Out of State Valid Motor Vehicle Operator’s License will be accepted during the application process.
 
Education:
Possession of a high school diploma, G.E.D. equivalency or high school proficiency certificate.
 
Experience:
One (1) year of full-time, or its equivalent, experience in a public elections office performing technical activities to prepare for and conduct state and/or local elections

Desirable Qualifications:

CalPEAC and/or CERA certification
Fluency in Spanish or Chinese
Experience as a team lead

Application Filing: All applicants must apply online at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/contracosta and submit the information as indicated on the job announcement by the final filing date.
Application Evaluation: Depending on the number of applications received, an Application Evaluation Board may be convened to evaluate and select the best-qualified candidates for invitation to the next phase of the examination.
Online Oral Exam: (Weighted 100%) Qualified candidates will be invited to participate in an online oral interview which will be reviewed by a group of subject matter experts who will rate your responses. The oral interview will measure candidates' competencies as they relate to the job. In the oral interview, candidates must achieve an average passing score of 70% or higher on each of the competencies, as well as an overall passing score of 70% or higher. These may include any of the competencies listed above in the job description.
Final Selection Interviews: Scheduled for the week of October 11th.
Tentative Recruitment Timeline
Online Oral Exam: Week of September 13th
Departmental Interviews: Week of October 11th


The Human Resources Department may change the examination steps noted above in accordance with the Personnel Management Regulations and accepted selection practices.

CONVICTION HISTORY
After you receive a conditional job offer, you will be fingerprinted, and your fingerprints will be sent to the California Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). The resulting report of your conviction history (if any) will be used to determine whether the nature of your conviction conflicts with the specific duties and responsibilities of the job for which you have received a conditional job offer. If a conflict exists, you will be asked to present any evidence of rehabilitation that may mitigate the conflict, except when federal or state regulations bar employment in specific circumstances. Having a conviction history does not automatically preclude you from a job with Contra Costa County. If you accept a conditional job offer, the Human Resources department will contact you to schedule a fingerprinting appointment.
 
DISASTER SERVICE WORKER
All Contra Costa County employees are designated Disaster Service Workers through state and local law. Employment with the County requires the affirmation of a loyalty oath to this effect. Employees are required to complete all Disaster Service Worker-related training as assigned, and to return to work as ordered in the event of an emergency.

EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
 It is the policy of Contra Costa County to consider all applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, ethnicity, age, disability, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity, gender expression, marital status, ancestry, medical condition, genetic information, military or veteran status, or other protected category under the law.

To find more information on Benefits offered by Contra Costa County, please go to https://www.contracosta.ca.gov/1343/Employee-Benefits


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Do you currently possess a high school diploma, G.E.D. equivalency or high school proficiency certificate?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Do you currently possess one (1) year of full-time, or its equivalent, experience in a public elections office performing technical activities to prepare for and conduct state and/or local elections?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        For the option you selected above (question #2), please describe your experience in a public elections office performing technical activities to prepare for and conduct state and/or local elections.  Include in your response, your years of experience, your role, and scope of responsibilities.
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        