We are the leading provider of nonpartisan resources to help nonprofits integrate voter engagement into their ongoing activities and services
Founded in 2006, Nonprofit VOTE partners with nonprofits across the United States to help people participate and vote. By leveraging the vast reach and trusted relationships of nonprofits, Nonprofit VOTE aims to ensure all people are heard in our democratic process, particularly people currently underrepresented in terms of voting, including persons with low-income, people of color, and younger voters.
Nonprofit VOTE provides nonpartisan resources to help nonprofits integrate voter engagement into their ongoing activities and services. In addition to trainings and support for nonprofits nationwide, we run on-the-ground voter engagement programs through our Multi-State Field program and serve as the managing partner of National Voter Registration Day.
Nonprofit VOTE equips our nation’s nonprofits with nonpartisan tools and resources to help the communities they serve participate in voting and democracy.
We envision a diverse network of nonprofits across the United States with the skills, resources, and commitment needed to foster a more inclusive democracy where all voices are heard, particularly those currently underrepresented in the voting process.
We believe an inclusive democracy transcends party lines and political campaigns. We support the full engagement of nonprofits and voters across the country independent of any partisan concerns.
We seek to support existing nonprofits already working in communities across the nation, nonprofits with the trust, deep roots, and cultural competency to work with the communities they serve.
Our democracy can only reflect the true will of the nation when all voices have a seat at the table, including those who have been historically disenfranchised or underrepresented. Learn more about our commitment to equity and a more inclusive democracy.
We readily share our materials, resources, and best practices and encourage nonprofits to adapt them to fit the needs of their audiences. We also draw new lessons learned as partners put these resources and strategies into practice.