=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Departmental Manager 14 - Campaign Finance Section Manager
Salary: $34.25 - $51.08 HOUR
Location: Lansing, MI, MI, 48909
Employer: State of Michigan
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2025-06-01
Job Type: Permanent Full Time
Job Number: 2301-25-BOE065
Department: Department of State
Opening Date: 06/02/2025
Closing Date: 6/11/2025 11:59 PM Eastern
Bargaining Unit: NON-EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTED EMPLOYEE (NERE)

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===




This supervisory position is responsible for overseeing staff in the Campaign Finance Section of the Bureau of Elections to promote transparency in election finance and promote ethics in government.  This position guides their team to provide service to the regulated community through phone, email, and remote appointments, and developing and implementing policies and procedures governing the work in that section. The position oversees analysts in their review and analysis of disclosure reports and campaign statements submitted under the Michigan Campaign Finance Act and Michigan Election Law. The position provides overall structure and guidance to the Campaign Finance Section by assigning, directing, monitoring, and reviewing work performed by staff. Additionally, this position oversees the more complex reporting by state-wide candidates and administers the public funding program for gubernatorial candidates. The incumbent, under general supervision by the Division Administrator, works within general methods, procedures, and exercises independent judgment to select appropriate courses of action.

Position Description - Departmental Manager 14 (Download PDF reader)

MDOSJOBS

Education
Possession of a bachelor's degree in any major.

Experience 
Four years of professional experience, including two years equivalent to the experienced (P11) level or one year equivalent to the advanced (12) level.

Alternate Education and Experience

Bachelor's Degree in any major AND 2 years of Dept of State Branch Supervisor 11 level or above experience OR 2 years of Departmental Supervisor 11 level experience OR 1 year of Departmental Supervisor 12 or above experience.

OR


High School diploma or GED AND 4 years of Dept of State Branch Supervisor 11 level or above experience OR 4 years of Departmental Supervisor 11 experience OR 3 years of Departmental Supervisor 12 or above experience.

 Job Specification (Download PDF reader)

Please attach a resume, cover letter to your application. Failure to do so may result in your application being screened from the hiring process. 

If you qualify for this position based on education, you must attach a copy of your official transcripts in order to determine if you meet the educational requirements.



As outlined by Civil Service, an official transcript must bear the applicant’s name, college, or university certification (e.g., seal, logo, watermark, or letterhead), date and name of the conferred degree and registrar’s signature. Transcripts that do not meet these requirements are considered unofficial. For more information regarding official transcripts, click here (Download PDF reader).

Applicants who possess a degree from a foreign college or university must have their academic credentials evaluated or converted into U.S. educational equivalents unless the degree has been recognized by the Council on Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA).  Go to evaluators for a list of accepted organizations that evaluate foreign credentials. Failure to provide this evaluation at the time of application may result in you being screened out of the process.


You must apply for this vacancy through the NEOGOV system; click on "Apply" in the job posting for instructions in submitting your electronic application. Your application for any position does not guarantee that you will be contacted by the Department for further consideration. Only those applicants interviewed will be notified of the results.

Civil Service Commission Rule 2-7 requires that all newly hired state employees submit to and pass a pre-employment drug test prior to their actual appointment.  Due to the nature of work of the Department of State criminal records and driving records will be checked.  Any position offer will be conditional until results of the criminal background record checks indicate eligibility for employment.
 


Accommodations
If you require a reasonable accommodation to participate in the application or selection processes, please contact the ADA coordinator (Download PDF reader) for the agency that posted this position vacancy.