=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Coordinator-Training and Education
Salary: $48,460.06 - $72,690.09 YEAR
Location: Monroe, NC, NC, 28112
Employer: Union County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2025-07-09
Job Type: Full-Time Regular
Job Number: 417014
Department: Board of Elections
Opening Date: 07/10/2025
Closing Date: 7/15/2025 8:00 AM Eastern

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

The Elections Coordinator, under moderate supervision, oversees and executes tasks within a designated area of the election process. In addition to their primary responsibilities, the coordinator provides cross-functional support to other election areas as needed, contributing to the overall efficiency and accuracy of election administration. This role also performs a range of administrative duties, including data management, documentation, and customer service. All duties must be carried out in strict compliance with state and federal election laws and regulations. Strong attention to detail, organizational proficiency, and the ability to collaborate effectively in a non-partisan manner is required. 

Assists with candidate filing, voter registration, and outreach events.




Conducts post-election audits, reconciliation, and recounts.




Enters and maintains accurate data in state and departmental databases.




Issues voter photo identification cards to registered voters.




Assists with customer service in person, by phone, and email.




Updates supplies and forms to remain compliant with changes in legislation and procedures.




Ensures retention of all official documents in compliance with the NC Department of Cultural Resources Records Retention and Disposition Schedule.




Attends conferences, training, and workshops to stay up to date with changes related to election laws and applies those changes in a timely manner.




Presents reports at county board meetings.




Performs other related duties as assigned.




POSITION-SPECIFIC FUNCTIONS




Training and Education

Assists with precinct official recruitment, scheduling, and retention.




Serves as an instructor for multiple training classes prior to each election.




Creates and edits training materials for online and in-person classes.




Schedules training sites, assists with set up and clean-up of sites.




Manages distribution of supplies, forms, and ballots to election officials.




Implements and oversees strict chain-of-custody protocols for voting equipment, ballots, and other sensitive election materials to maintain transparency and safeguard election integrity.




Addresses any questions or problems that arise during voting.




Assists with supervision of part-time seasonal office staff.




Curates content and responses for department’s official social media platforms.




Takes and edits photos and videos for social media and educational resources.




Coordinates the live streaming of Board of Elections meetings to maintain public access and transparency.




Prepares and delivers presentations of election related topics to audiences of all ages.




Creates a variety of informative materials and educational resources for both internal and external audiences.







MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

Education and Experience:

Associate's Degree from an accredited college with major course work in Political Science, Business Administration, Accounting, Legal Studies, or related field, and three (3) years of experience in preparation of reports, bookkeeping, responding to and composing correspondence, and performing administrative tasks; or equivalent combination of education and experience.

Licenses or Certifications:

Certification as a North Carolina Public Notary required (must be obtained within 12 months of appointment).




Must have a valid North Carolina Driver's License and be able to maintain a safe driving history as defined by the Union County Vehicle Use Policy.




Special Requirements: 

Proficient using Microsoft Office products




Must submit fingerprints and consent to a criminal history record check by the State Bureau of Investigation (SBI) in compliance with NCGS 163.27.2




Must attend mandatory biannual NCSBE  training that requires overnight travel.




Must be available to work nights, weekends, and holidays during the election season.




PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS

Education and Experience:

Bachelor’s Degree in Political Science, Business Administration, Public Administration, Law, or related field and three (3) years of experience, preferably in a Board of Elections office




Licenses or Certifications:

North Carolina Certified Elections Administrator (NCCEA)







PHYSICAL DEMANDS

Must be physically able to operate standard office equipment including computers, tablets, fax machines, scanners, multifunction copying/printing machines, phone systems etc. Must be able to exert up to 30 pounds of force occasionally, and/or a negligible amount of force constantly to move objects. Physical demand requirements are in excess of those for Sedentary Work. Light Work usually requires walking or standing to a significant degree. However, if the use of arm and/or leg controls requires exertion of forces greater than that for Sedentary Work and the worker sits most of the time, the job is rated for Light Work.




WORK ENVIRONMENT

Work is performed in a safe and secure work environment that may periodically have unpredicted requirements or demands.

INSURANCE PROGRAMS HEALTH INSURANCEAll full-time employees and their eligible dependents can participate on the first day of the first full month of employment. You must sign up for coverage within your first 30 days of employment or wait until the annual enrollment period. Preventative Care Coverage Prescription Coverage Health & Wellness Center available exclusively to Union County employees, spouses and dependents covered under the health plan. DENTAL INSURANCE All full-time employees and their eligible dependents can participate on the first day of the first full month of employment. You must sign up for coverage within your first 30 days of employment or wait until the annual enrollment period.LIFE INSURANCE Basic Term life Insurance in the amount of one times the annual salary is provided for all full-time and benefitted part-time employees. Additional coverage for Life Insurance (Accident, Cancer, Long Term and Short Term) is available for purchase through payroll deduction for the employee and eligible dependents.FINANCIAL PROGRAMS RETIREMENT Membership in the North Carolina Local Government Employees Retirement System is a requirement for all full-time and benefitted part-time employees. Employees contribute six percent (6%) of their annual compensation before it is taxed. If you leave County service before retirement, you may withdraw your retirement contributions or elect to freeze your contributions in anticipation of future local government employment. If you have five (5) years of service, you are 100% vested in the NCLGERS. NC401(k)The NC401(k) supplemental retirement program is available to full-time and benefitted part-time employees. The County establishes this 401(k) account for each eligible employee and makes a five percent (5%) contribution based on biweekly earnings. Employees may elect to make voluntary contributions through payroll deduction.457 DEFERRED COMPENSATIONThe 457 Deferred Compensation program is available to all employees through payroll deduction. Deferred compensation is a voluntary investment plan to supplement retirement income and to defer taxable income. FLEXIBLE SPENDING ACCOUNTS Options are available to regular full-time and benefitted part-time employees who wish to use pre-tax dollars for eligible medical, pharmacy, dental, vision, and daycare expenses. The Flex Debit Card program gives you instant access to your account funds.Health Care Spending Account -- Section 125 of the IRS Code allows yearly voluntary enrollment to set aside pre-tax dollars for eligible health care expenses.Dependent Care Spending Account -- Section 125 of the IRS Code allows yearly voluntary enrollment to set aside pre-tax dollars for eligible dependent care expenses.DIRECT DEPOSIT Deposit of your paycheck will be made to checking or savings accounts in a bank of your choice.TRUISTNo Overdraft Fees$100 Negative Balance BufferOnline and Mobile Banking with Bill PayLEAVE PROGRAMS VACATION LEAVE Vacation leave is accrued based on creditable years of service in the Local Government Employees Retirement System.SICK LEAVE For full-time County employees, sick leave accrues at eight (8.0) hours per month. Benefitted part-time employees accrue prorated sick leave based on a percentage of the full-time rate. Your unused sick leave balance can be applied as creditable service toward a service retirement under the guidelines of the NCLGERS.SICK LEAVE TRANSFER FROM OTHER AGENCIES Unused sick leave earned from another North Carolina Governmental Agency and/or entity, will be accepted and transferred to the County as follows: twelve (12) sick leave days will be transferred and added to the employees active sick leave balance after completion of six (6) months of employment. The remaining balance of sick leave documented for transfer at the time of employment will be recorded in the employees permanent personnel file. On the fifth anniversary of employment with the County, the remaining balance of transferred sick leave will be added to the employees active sick leave balance.HOLIDAYS There are 13 County recognized holidays (includes 3 days for Christmas) per year with 1 floating holiday available.  MILITARY LEAVE Annual Training - 10 paid workdays granted.Active Duty - 20 paid workdays granted.CIVIL LEAVE Paid leave is provided to full-time or regular part-time County employees called for jury duty or as a witness of the court for the federal or state government, or a subdivision thereof.FAMILY & MEDICAL LEAVE ACT Federal law provides job protection and continuation of existing paid health insurance during 12 weeks of leave, paid or unpaid, to an eligible employee for qualifying events. These events can include birth or adoption, and serious illness of an immediate family member, or of the employee.PAID PARENTAL LEAVEParental Leave provides the employee paid leave for the first eight weeks of approved FML for the birth of a son or daughter, or placement with the employee of a son or daughter for adoption or foster care.ADMINISTRATIVE LEAVE Educational Leave is available to regular full-time and benefitted part-time employees when participating in a job-related, short course, such as an update, not to exceed ten (10) consecutive working days. VOLUNTEER TIME OFFVolunteer Time Off will provide employees with 16 hours of paid time per calendar year to volunteer at approved Union County community partner agencies. OTHER PROGRAMS EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM The Employee Assistance Program is open to all employees and their dependents. It is a confidential service provided at no cost to the employees of the County. EAP provides certified counselors who administer assessment and brief therapy to employees who want help with a variety of personal and work-related issues such as stress, parenting concerns, grief, alcohol/drug use, family problems, financial concerns, and work-related problems.AQUATIC AND FITNESS CENTER We believe that staying healthy is more than just exercising regularly and eating well. Individual and family discount membership and monthly dues are available to full-time and benefitted part-time employees through payroll deduction.NATIONAL COLLEGE SAVINGS PROGRAM The National College Savings Program is open to all employees. The Program is designed to provide certain tax advantages, encourage and facilitate saving to pay the costs of attending eligible institutions. 


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Are you currently a Notary Public in the State of North Carolina?
        
        
                yes
                no
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Do you have a valid driver's license and clean driving record?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Are you able to work evenings and weekends, as needed, during the election season?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        What type of work environment helps you thrive, and why?
        
        
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        What role do you typically take on in a group setting, and why?
        
        
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        How do you typically manage stress or stay focused during high pressure situations?
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        