=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Manager
Salary: $76,232.26 - $121,682.08 YEAR
Location: Alexandria, VA, VA, 22314
Employer: City of Alexandria
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2025-02-06
Job Type: Full-Time
Job Number: 2025-00258
Department: Voter Registration & Elections
Opening Date: 02/07/2025
Closing Date: 2/24/2025 5:00 PM Eastern
Bargaining Unit: N/A

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Elections Manager

Overview:

The Elections Manager directs and coordinates the elections operation in the City of Alexandria. The employee in this class has primary responsibility for directing the conduct of early voting and by-mail ballot processes. The Elections Manager is responsible for properly programming the voting machines to ensure a totally accurate recording and accounting of votes, as well as the security, maintenance, repair and transportation of all voting machines, and for negotiation and arrangement for use of facilities as voting precincts. The Elections Manager serves as the primary supervisor for warehouse inventory and logistics Responsibilities also include hiring and training of election officials to staff the polls and arranging for the printing of ballots. The Elections Manager serves as Acting General Registrar and Director of Elections in the absence of the General Registrar and Director of Elections. The work is performed under the general direction and guidance of the General Registrar and Director of Elections and must meet all guidelines of election law and departmental standards.

What you should bring:

The ideal candidate will be a detail-oriented professional with strong communication skills. Along with the ability to:

Adapt to a variety of changing situations.

innovate and improve processes.

Regularly work well under pressure, meeting multiple deadlines.

Answer inquiries independently and stay current with election law and administration.

Effectively supervise and manage a team.

Communicate effectively in person, through email and by telephone with City Officials, facilities directors, poll workers, co-workers, and vendors.

Establish and maintain effective working relationships in fluid teams as necessitated by work assignments.

Use different training methods for diverse groups of people of varying ages and technological capability.

The Opportunity and Key Responsibilities

Manages, plans and directs highly technical election activities including:

oversight for by-mail voting,

administration of early voting,

 ballot design and layout,

 equipment preparation and testing,

 the development of training plans for election officers,

 staff assignments,

 selection and management of polling places,

and the overall management of local, State and Federal elections.

Reviews, interprets and implements complex laws, regulations and policies (local, State and Federal) that vary for each election, change continually, and relate to the voting process, accessibility issues and other activities relating to the election process.

Ensures that election staff are familiar with election laws and regulations.

Hires, trains, and assigns election officers.

Evaluates performance, makes decisions concerning promotions, demotions, and terminations, and resolves performance issues.

Secures and manages the City's polling places, negotiates/works directly with facility managers, and ensures compliance with disability laws and regulations.

Manage complex issues relating to the election process that arise on a non-routine basis.

Serves as Acting General Registrar and Director of Elections in the absence of the General Registrar and Director of Elections.

Performs related work as required.

About the Department

The Office of Voter Registration & Elections is dedicated to the non-partisan administration of all federal, state, and local elections within the City of Alexandria, while upholding the office’s standards of Integrity, Neutrality, Transparency and Accuracy.

Knowledge, Skills and Abilities

Thorough knowledge of Federal, State and Local election laws and procedures; ability to program, repair and maintain voting machines; ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships with City officials, other employees, community groups, and the general public; ability to negotiate and arrange for the use of public facilities as voting places; excellent interpersonal and communication skills; ability to perform duties under stress in a courteous manner; and the ability to communicate clearly and effectively, both verbally and in writing.

Bachelor's degree and 5 years of relevant experience; or any equivalent combination of experience and training which provides the required knowledge, skills and abilities. Must be a registered voter in the Commonwealth of Virginia.

To be considered an ideal candidate, one must possess the minimum requirements as well a minimum of 5 years of experience administering an election process or similar activity with complex laws, rules and regulations, experience managing time sensitive projects that require a high degree of accuracy, experience supervising a large group of skilled individuals, knowledge of local, state and federal election laws, policies and regulations and knowledge of voting technology, software and equipment.

Must be a registered voter in the Commonwealth of Virginia. Flexibility to work nights and weekends as needed. Physical ability to move equipment weighing 30-45 lbs.

The City of Alexandria is an Equal Opportunity Employer and values diversity in its workforce. All qualified candidates will receive consideration without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, personal appearance, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, family responsibilities, matriculation, political affiliation, genetic information, military status, or disability. 

We are proud to welcome you to explore the City of Alexandria's excellent benefits and programs!Click here to learn more about Employee BenefitsClick here to learn more about the City's Employee Development ProgramThe benefits referenced on this site, may be changed from time to time without notice. Also, temporary and some part-time positions are not eligible for these benefits. For further information, please contact the Talent Acquisition Team of Human Resources at DHR.TA@alexandriava.gov. 


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Are you a registered voter in Virginia, or are you able to become a registered voter in Virginia?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Do you have any experience in Voter Registration and Elections within Virginia?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        If so, please explain your experience (if you answered no, please enter N/A)
        
        
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Do you have experience supervising and managing staff?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        If so, please explain your experience (if you answered no, please enter N/A)
        
        
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        This position requires the ability to work some evenings, occasional early morning and weekend. Are you willing and able to meet this requirement?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        