=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Senior Deputy Registrar
Salary: $51,599.60 - $90,802.92 YEAR
Location: Alexandria, VA, VA, 22314
Employer: City of Alexandria
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2025-02-06
Job Type: Full-Time
Job Number: 2025-00257
Department: Voter Registration & Elections
Opening Date: 02/07/2025
Closing Date: 2/21/2025 11:59 PM Eastern
Bargaining Unit: N/A

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===



Senior Deputy Registrar

Overview:

A Senior Deputy Registrar manages the voter registration processes and the electronic pollbook system in the Office of Voter Registration & Elections. An employee in this position coordinates complex voter registration records to ensure compliance with all applicable federal and state election laws. Additionally, they coordinate the training for Election Officers on the electronic pollbook system with the Elections Manager. The Senior Deputy Registrar provides guidance and training to Deputy Registrar Is, IIs and III and Election Officers. The incumbent in this class examines and certifies candidate petitions and investigates complex voter registration scenarios to solve problems that occur at polls on election day. Work requires that all materials meet the guidelines of election law and department standards.

What you should bring:

The ideal candidate will be a detail-oriented professional with strong communication skills. Along with the ability to:

Regularly work well under pressure, meeting multiple deadlines.

 Answer inquiries independently and stay current with election law and administration.

 Follow complex oral and written instructions.

 Effectively plan and manage time.

 Communicate effectively in person, through email and by telephone with poll workers, co-workers, and vendors.

 Establish and maintain effective working relationships in fluid teams as necessitated by work assignments.

 Use different training methods for diverse groups of people of varying ages and technological capability.

 Be cross trained to assist with other day-to-day operations.

The Opportunity and Key Responsibilities

Examines voter registration applications to determine if they should be accepted, canceled, transferred or denied;
Investigates and corrects errors on voter registration transactions done outside the office or received from contiguous jurisdictions;
Resolves irregular voter registration applications such as duplicate registrations and irregular addresses;
Uses sensitive data concerning felony convictions, death notices, mental incapacity, and citizenship status to make determinations about voter eligibility;
Cancels deceased voters from the voter list;
Cancels those voters who have since been convicted of a felony, and provides information on restoration of rights;
Cancels those voters who have been judged mentally incapacitated and provides information on restoration of rights;
Reinstates voters whose rights have been restored, or whose conviction was downgraded;
Provides guidance to election officers on issues involving voter eligibility on Election Day; 
Researches complex non-routine voter eligibility issues stemming from Provisional Ballots cast by voters at the polls on Election Day so no eligible person is denied the right to vote;
Prepares, programs and tests electronic pollbook equipment and system for use at the polling places on election day;
Instructs Deputy Registrar IIIs on the technical issues associated with electronic pollbook equipment;
Examines and certifies candidate petitions to make certain candidates are legally qualified to be placed on the ballot;
Plans, assigns and reviews work for Assistant Registrars;
Answers complex voter registration questions from citizens;
Oversees filing and removal of obsolete material from files and duplication of records;
Enters all new streets into Virginia Voter Registration System along with the correct precinct, House of Delegates district, Virginia State Senate district, and US Congressional district, to keep precincts accurate and enable the automatic assignment of precinct by computer;
Oversees the printing and proofing of various registration and election material, such as of voter registration cards, registration reports, street listings and training materials;
Processes incoming and outgoing mail;
Maintains daily, monthly, and annual reports; and
Performs related duties as required.

About the Department

The Office of Voter Registration & Elections is dedicated to the non-partisan administration of all federal, state, and local elections within the City of Alexandria, while upholding the office’s standards of Integrity, Neutrality, Transparency and Accuracy.

Knowledge, Skills and Abilities

Thorough knowledge of geographical boundaries of the City, surrounding jurisdictions and their subdivisions; good knowledge of Virginia voter registration and election laws and procedures; good knowledge of alphabetical filing systems and of the operational procedures of standard office electronic equipment and software; good knowledge of electronic record keeping systems and equipment; good knowledge of and ability to operate voting machines and to instruct others in the operation of the equipment; ability to perform duties under stress in a courteous manner; ability to communicate clearly and effectively, both verbally and in writing; ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships with coworkers, community groups, and the public.

High School Diploma or GED, and 3 years of relevant experience; or any equivalent combination of experience and training which provides the required knowledge, skills and abilities. Must be a registered voter in the Commonwealth of Virginia.

Bachelor's degree in Public Administration, Public Policy or related field and 3 years of experience in elections administration.

The City of Alexandria is an Equal Opportunity Employer and values diversity in its workforce. All qualified candidates will receive consideration without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, personal appearance, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, family responsibilities, matriculation, political affiliation, genetic information, military status, or disability. 

We are proud to welcome you to explore the City of Alexandria's excellent benefits and programs!Click here to learn more about Employee BenefitsClick here to learn more about the City's Employee Development ProgramThe benefits referenced on this site, may be changed from time to time without notice. Also, temporary and some part-time positions are not eligible for these benefits. For further information, please contact the Talent Acquisition Team of Human Resources at DHR.TA@alexandriava.gov. 


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Are you a registered voter in Virginia, or are you able to become a registered voter in Virginia?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Do you have any experience in Voter Registration and Elections?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        If so, please explain your experience (if you answered no, please enter N/A.
        
        
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        This position requires the ability to work some evenings, occasional early morning and weekend. Are you willing and able to meet this requirement?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        