=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Information and Operations Coordinator
Salary: $48,185.54 - $84,794.32 YEAR
Location: Alexandria, VA, VA, 22314
Employer: City of Alexandria
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2023-12-18
Job Type: Full-Time
Job Number: 2024-00222
Department: Voter Registration & Elections
Opening Date: 12/19/2023
Closing Date: 1/14/2024 11:59 PM Eastern
Bargaining Unit: N/A

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===




Elections Information and Operations Coordinator


Overview 
The City of Alexandria is looking for an Elections Information & Operations Coordinator to manage the administrative operations and information programs of the Office of Voter Registration & Elections. On the administrative side, the Elections Information & Operations Coordinator is responsible for managing purchasing, accounts payable, human resources, payroll and scheduling for the office. On the public information side, the Elections Information & Operations Coordinator is responsible for maintaining the office web site, drafting all press releases, and coordinating all outreach activities. Works under the supervision of the General Registrar.
 
The Opportunity – Examples of Work 
Coordinates the administrative operations of the Department including purchasing, accounts payable, payroll, purchase card reconciliation, and travel arrangements; 
Maintains records management systems in accordance with legal requirements established by the Library of Virginia; 
Coordinates the department's recruitment and hiring efforts with City Human Resources; conducts department orientation for new employees; 
Schedules all part-time and seasonal staff and delegates their work assignments; 
Supervises the receipt of candidate filings and campaign finance reports. Works closely with candidates to ensure compliance with campaign finance laws, and determines when civil penalties are required; 
Coordinates voter registration activities with external organizations such as local non-profits and the Department of Homeland Security (at Naturalization Ceremonies);
Maintains and responds to requests for department information including responding to Freedom of Information Act requests, drafting press releases, maintaining the department's website, social media and multimedia, and conducting outreach; 
Designs forms and informational fliers for the office;
Performs other duties as required. 
The Ideal Candidate 
To qualify for this position, all candidates must be registered voters in the Commonwealth of Virginia; possess at least an Associate's degree; at least three (3) years of relevant experience; or any equivalent combination of experience and training which provides the required knowledge, skills and abilities for the position.
 
To be considered an ideal candidate, one should be organized; have good knowledge of the operational procedures of standard office equipment and software; have good knowledge of electronic record keeping systems and equipment; have strong communication skills, both verbal and written skills; have at least some experience using printed media and social media to promote an event; be comfortable speaking to large groups; have the ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships with coworkers, community groups, and the public; ability to use technology, including Microsoft office (or equivalent), and database management; and an interest in learning about the laws and policies that dictate the conduct of elections
 
About the Department 
The Office of Voter Registration and Elections is responsible for conducting accurate, fair, and transparent elections in Alexandria in accordance with the Constitution and laws of the United States and the Commonwealth of Virginia. The Office is also responsible for providing Alexandria voters the opportunity to participate in the electoral process. This includes maintaining an accurate list of registered voters, providing early, by-mail, and election-day voting opportunities. Other responsibilities include recruiting and training poll workers, preparing ballots and voting equipment, managing polling places, and certifying election results. The office continuously strives to uphold its standards of integrity, neutrality, accuracy, and transparency.

At least an associates degree and 3 years of relevant experience; or any equivalent combination of experience and training which provides the required knowledge, skills and abilities. Must be a registered voter in the Commonwealth of Virginia.

One should be organized; have good knowledge of the operational procedures of standard office equipment and software; have good knowledge of electronic record keeping systems and equipment; have strong communication skills, both verbal and written skills; have at least some experience using printed media and social media to promote an event; be comfortable speaking to large groups; have the ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships with coworkers, community groups, and the public; ability to use technology, including Microsoft office (or equivalent), and database management; and an interest in learning about the laws and policies that dictate the conduct of elections.

The City of Alexandria is an Equal Opportunity Employer and values diversity in its workforce. All qualified candidates will receive consideration without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, personal appearance, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, family responsibilities, matriculation, political affiliation, genetic information, military status, or disability. 

We are proud to welcome you to explore the City of Alexandria's excellent benefits and programs!Click here to learn more about Employee BenefitsClick here to learn more about the City's Employee Development ProgramThe benefits referenced on this site, may be changed from time to time without notice. Also, temporary and some part-time positions are not eligible for these benefits. For further information, please contact the Benefits Division of the Department of Human Resources at 703.746.3785 or email DHR.Benefits@alexandriava.gov .


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Are you a registered voter in Virginia? Or if you are not, are you able to become a registered voter prior to accepting this position?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Do you have at least one (1) year of experience in office management and/or public information?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        If so, please briefly explain your experience. (If you answered no, please enter N/A.)
        
        
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Do you have experience with public speaking or organizing outreach events?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        If so, please briefly explain your experience. (If you answered no, please enter N/A.)
        
        
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Do you have experience creating printed media, or using social media and web sites to promote an event?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        If so, please briefly describe your experience. (If you answered no, please enter N/A.)
        
        
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Do you have language proficiency in one or more languages, other than English?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        If yes, please indicate the language(s) and your level of proficiency. (If you answered no, please enter N/A.)
        
        
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        This position requires the ability to work some evenings, occasional early mornings, and weekends, around election time. Are you willing and able to meet this requirement?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        