=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Departmental Supervisor 11 - Elections Support Desk
Salary: $52,374.40 - $76,398.40 YEAR
Location: Lansing, MI, MI, 48909
Employer: State of Michigan
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2023-08-03
Job Type: Permanent Full Time
Remote Employment: Flexible/Hybrid
Job Number: 2301-23-BOE008
Department: Department of State
Opening Date: 08/04/2023
Closing Date: 8/18/2023 11:59 PM Eastern
Bargaining Unit: NON-EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTED EMPLOYEE (NERE)

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

 

POSITION DUTIES - This position serves as the first line supervisor of technician positions in a standard work area for the Bureau of Elections Help Desk, which provides procedural information about campaign finance, disclosure, notarial acts and election law to candidates, committees, election administrators, notary providers and to the general public. This manager coordinates the tier 1 support and triage for inbound calls and communication to the Bureau of Elections to either resolve or route to the appropriate advanced level support. The incumbent coordinates with the Operations Section manager to provides additional support for bureau wide project activities and initiatives. Incumbent coordinates the staff that provides coverage for the Bureau of Elections front desk that support in person appointments or customer questions.

Position Description - Departmental Supervisor 11 (Download PDF reader)
 

APPOINTMENT TYPE/BENEFITS - This position is Full-Time. Therefore, you would be eligible to participate in the benefits offered by the state.

This position has the potential to work a hybrid/remote work schedule.

MDOSJOBS

Education 
Educational level typically acquired through completion of high school.

Experience 

One year of experience equivalent to a Departmental Supervisor 10, Office Supervisor 11, or Secretary Supervisor 11; two years equivalent to an experienced-level technician, paraprofessional, professional; Office Supervisor 9 and 10, Secretary Supervisor 10, Emergency Dispatch Supervisor 10, or Human Resources Customer Service Supervisor 10; or two years of Office Supervisor 9 and 10, or a Secretary Supervisor 10 and 11.

Accommodations
If you require a reasonable accommodation to participate in the application or selection processes, please contact the ADA coordinator (Download PDF reader) for the agency that posted this position vacancy.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Do you possess the education typically acquired through completion of high school?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        DEPTSPV2 – Do you possess at least one year of experience equivalent to a Departmental Supervisor 10, Office Supervisor 11, or Secretary Supervisor 11; or two years equivalent to an experienced-level technician, paraprofessional, professional, Office Supervisor 9 and 10, Secretary Supervisor 10, Emergency Dispatch Supervisor 10, or Human Resources Customer Service Supervisor 10?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Are you related to anyone currently working for the Department of State (Secretary of State)?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        If you answered "yes" to question #3, please list the name of each relative. If you answered "no" to question #3, please enter "none".
        
        
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        How many years of management or supervisory experience do you have?
        
        
                None
                Less than 1 year
                1 year to 2 years
                More than 2 years
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Describe your management or supervisory experience. If you do not have any experience, enter NA.
        
        
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have working in a call center, help desk, support desk or similar environment?
        
        
                None
                Less than 2 years
                2 to 5 years
                More than 5 years
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Describe your experience working in a call center, help desk, support desk or similar environment. If you do not have any experience, enter NA.
        
        
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have defining work and/or call frameworks, procedures or standards?
        
        
                None
                Less than 1 year
                1 to 3 years
                3 to 5 years
                More than 5 years
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        Describe your experience defining work and/or call frameworks, procedures, or standards. If you do not have any experience, enter NA.
        
        
        
    


    
        

11

    

    
        This position is responsible for developing and monitoring metrics, then making business adjustments based on those metrics. How many years of experience do you have developing and applying metrics to business activities?
        
        
                None
                Less than 1 year
                1 to 3 years
                3 to 5 years
                More than 5 years
        
    


    
        

12

    

    
        Describe your experience developing and monitoring metrics, then making business adjustments based on those metrics. If you do not have experience, enter NA.
        
        
        
    


    
        

13

    

    
        Describe a time when you created an environment of honesty, inclusion and respect for others. Describe the situation, the actions you took, and the outcome.
        
        
        
    


    
        

14

    

    
        Are you a Bureau of Elections Employee or Contractor?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        