The Grants Specialist will assist the Grants Director to manage and administer the grants program for the EAC pursuant to 5 USC §3109 (See 42 USC §15324(b)) and §204 (6)(c) of HAVA.
Summary
The Grants Specialist will assist the Grants Director to manage and administer the grants program for the EAC pursuant to 5 USC §3109 (See 42 USC §15324(b)) and §204 (6)(c) of HAVA.
The incumbent provides expert advice to EAC leadership regarding grants management; provides advice and guidance to States and U.S. territories regarding the use of funds provided by EAC to ensure State/U.S. territory compliance with HAVA, Appropriations Law and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) circulars; conducts pre- and post-audits to review how funds have been spent; and makes recommendations to the Executive Director for audit resolutions.
Major Duties
The incumbent provides expertise for EAC on matters related to grants management oversight, audit resolution, budget formulation, and strategic planning. Activities may include:
Supporting the EAC in the development of Congressional budget justifications;
Developing short-term goals and objectives for the grants management program and participating in long-term strategic planning with EAC leadership;
Providing technical assistance to the states on administering Federal funds and the allowable usage of HAVA funds;
Processing and disbursing payments to States and discretionary grant recipients;
Researching options for awarding remaining grant funds;
Tracking the submission of and reviewing the content of financial and performance reports submitted by States and discretionary grant recipients;
Pre-audit site visits to grantees to provide technical assistance and prepare for future audits;
Providing post-audit visits, reviewing audit reports (related to payments and equipment inventory), and working with fund recipients on recommendations to resolve audit findings applicable to EAC programs;
Overseeing the process of negotiating the indirect cost rates;
Reviewing and approving amended State Plan submissions;
Grants close-out management;
Writing guidance (e.g., policies and internal controls) on grants management and HAVA issues;
Providing written monthly/quarterly reports of activities associated with grants management and oversight;
Managing contracts related to grants program activities; and
Candidates must meet all qualifications prior to the closing date of this announcement.
Qualifications
COMPETENCIES
In-depth knowledge of HAVA, Appropriations Law, OMB circulars and EAC's Grants Management Handbook sufficient to provide expert guidance and advice to others regarding the expenditure of funds, conduct reviews to ensure compliance with Federal laws, regulations and guidance; and identify resolutions based on review findings.
Knowledge of grants management in order to serve as expert, strategic advisor on issues pertaining to EAC's grants management program.
Knowledge of information gathering and analysis techniques to gather, analyze, summarize, and report on audit findings.
Ability to effectively defend policies, internal controls, or points of view in the face of heavy criticism in unstructured settings with internal and external stakeholders (e.g., Inspector General; State officials; and local election officials).
Interpersonal Effectiveness: Skill in responding appropriately to a diversity of groups and individuals in a variety of challenging situations. Demonstrated ability to be tactful and to treat others with respect. Skill in developing networks, achieving cooperation, and collaborating with others when appropriate, including parties outside of EAC.
Written and Oral Communication: Demonstrated ability to clearly, succinctly and convincingly express facts and ideas both in writing and orally. Skill in listening and appropriately responding to the ideas, points of view, or concerns of others.
Organizational Skill: Demonstrated understanding of priorities, deadlines, administrative systems and resources needed to gather and synthesize information while balancing workload demands.
External Awareness: Skill in identifying and keeping abreast of legislation, policies and economic, political, and social trends that affect the EAC.
Skill in building coalitions and in communicating to explain, advocate and negotiate with individual and groups internally and externally. Ability to develop an expansive professional network with other organizations, to represent and speak for the Agency and organization, and to gain understanding and support from senior management.
Ability to establish program/policy goals and the structure and processes necessary to implement the organization's strategic vision and mission, to ensure that programs and policies are being implemented and adjusted as necessary, that the appropriate results are being achieved, and that a process for continually assessing the quality of the program activities is in place.
Education
This job does not have an education qualification requirement.
Additional information
You must submit all required information by the closing date. If materials are not received, your application will be evaluated solely on the information available and you may not receive full consideration or may not be considered eligible. The materials you send with your application will not be returned.
Send only those materials needed to evaluate your application.
If you use public transportation, part of your transportation costs may be subsidized.
All applicants MUST submit applications via email: resumes@eac.gov.
You MUST include the job title and announcement number in the subject line of the email. You do not need to submit your application package through the USAJOBS process.
Your application package must be received by the closing date of the announcement and must include the following:
A resume;
For current or former federal employees, you must submit a copy of your last Notification of Personnel Action (SF50) showing your position, title, series, grade and eligibility; and
A copy of your most recent performance appraisal. If you do not have a recent performance appraisal, please explain why you do not have one.
All applicants MUST submit applications via email: resumes@eac.gov.
You MUST include the job title and announcement number in the subject line of the email. You do not need to submit your application package through the USAJOBS process.
Your application package must be received by the closing date of the announcement and must include the following:
A resume;
For current or former federal employees, you must submit a copy of your last Notification of Personnel Action (SF50) showing your position, title, series, grade and eligibility; and
A copy of your most recent performance appraisal. If you do not have a recent performance appraisal, please explain why you do not have one.