=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Departmental Analyst 12- Senior Elections Online Training Specialist
Salary: $49,628.80 - $72,571.20 YEAR
Location: Lansing, MI, MI, 48909
Employer: State of Michigan
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2018-07-12
Job Type: Permanent Full Time
Job Number: 2301-18-EL308
Department: Department of State
Opening Date: 07/13/2018
Closing Date: 7/24/2018 11:59 PM Eastern
Bargaining Unit: NON-EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTED EMPLOYEE (NERE)

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===


POSITION DUTIES – This position oversees and leads Bureau of Elections (BOE) activities related to the planning, development, implementation, maintenance, communication and tracking of online training programs and other online references and resources.  This position is responsible for overseeing and planning all aspects of the online Elections eLearning Center, which serves approximately 3,400 election officials statewide.  Duties include development of the overall online training curriculum and required components of Michigan's mandated Continuing Education program for election officials; developing and maintaining the overall online training learning management system (LMS) currently contracted with Cornerstone on Demand; developing online SCORM course material covering complex topics related to election administration, utilizing specialized software like Lectora and Camtasia; managing the system components related to enrolling, assigning, and tracking election officials' completion of online coursework to ensure required training elements are completed timely; developing complex online data collection through an application like Zoho; managing  contracts with outside service providers; and coordinating, managing and implementing continual updates and improvements to all BOE web resources. The position also provides technical assistance to Michigan election officials and BOE staff, develops training manuals and other reference material; leads and participates on special projects; and acts as a state- and national-level liaison for BOE related to our online training programs.  

APPOINTMENT TYPE/BENEFITS - This position is Full-Time. Therefore, you would be eligible to participate in the benefits offered by the state.

Departmental Analyst 12 - Position Description

Education
Possession of a bachelor's degree in any major.

Experience
Three years of professional experience, including one year of experience equivalent to the experienced (P11) level in state service.

Accommodations
If you require a reasonable accommodation to participate in the application or selection processes, please contact the ADA coordinator (Download PDF reader) for the agency that posted this position vacancy.

 State employment benefits include everything from health insurance to retirement income and are worth about 40% of your salary This page gives a brief explanation of some of the benefits that are provided by the State of Michigan according to union contracts or Civil Service Rules. See details on these and other employment information.Leave TimeFull time employees receive between 15 and 35 vacation leave days per year. Employees also receive 13 sick days per year, and employees receive 8 hours of leave to participate in certain school functions or community activities. Employees may also qualify for up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave for certain family or medical situations.HolidaysState employees receive 12 scheduled holidays each year, which include New Years Eve Day and New Years Day, Christmas Eve Day and Christmas Day, Memorial Day, and Veterans Day just to name a few.Alternative Work SchedulesFlexible work schedules and telecommuting options are available in many jobs.Insurance and Other BenefitsInsurances include health, vision, dental and life. Employees also have the option to purchase additional life, accidental death, long term disability, long term care insurance, and legal services. Flexible spending accounts for medical expenses and child care are also available.Deferred CompensationEmployees may invest income in a tax-deferred retirement investment program. The state offers two optional deferred compensation plans, the 457 and 401(k). Employees decide the amount you want deducted from your paycheck.RetirementEmployees receive a minimum 4% state contribution toward their retirement fund. If an employee elects to contribute more, the state will match that percentage (up to 3%). ORS administers two different retirement plans for State of Michigan employees: a Defined Benefit (DB) plan and a Defined Contribution (DC) plan. Use the following link for detailed information: Two plans for State Employees


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        DEPTALT - Do you possess one of the following?  

A bachelor's degree or higher in any major.  If so, please attach a copy of your official college transcripts;

OR

at least one year of professional level experience in the state of Michigan classified service.
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        DEPTALTA- Do you possess at least three years of professional experience?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Are you related to anyone working at the Department of State (Secretary of State)?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        If you answered "yes" to question #3, please list the name of each relative. If you answered "no" to question #3, please enter "none."
        
        
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Please select your experience related to the planning, development, and maintenance of a learning management system and developing online training courses and videos.
        
        
                None
                Less than 1 year
                1 year - 2 years
                3 years - 4 years
                More than 4 years
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Please describe your experience related to the planning, development, and maintenance of a learning management system and developing online training courses and videos. If you do not possess this experience, please enter "none".
        
        
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Please select your experience with the planning, development, and maintenance of web pages.
        
        
                None
                Less than 1 year
                1 year - 2 years
                3 years - 4 years
                More than 4 years
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Please describe your experience with the planning, development, and maintenance of web pages. If you do not possess this experience, please enter "none".
        
        
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        Please describe other technical software program experience relevant to the position description. If you do not possess this experience, please enter "none".
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        