The IG reports to the Commission and is responsible for the implementation and management of the Office of the Inspector General (OIG) in the Commission. The IG conducts, supervises, and/or coordinates independent and objective audits, inspections, evaluations, and investigations of EAC programs and operations, contractor activities, and grants to states and nonprofit organizations.
Summary
The IG reports to the Commission and is responsible for the implementation and management of the Office of the Inspector General (OIG) in the Commission. The IG conducts, supervises, and/or coordinates independent and objective audits, inspections, evaluations, and investigations of EAC programs and operations, contractor activities, and grants to states and nonprofit organizations.
The Assistant Inspector General for Audit (AIGA) directs or conducts performance audits, evaluations, inspections and reviews of EAC programs, functions, and operations. The incumbent maintains personal contact with key senior officials within and outside of EAC, such as management and officials of CIGIE, OMB, GAO, other Federal and state agencies, contractors and educational or research groups.
Participates with the IG in developing the annual audit plan; determining the scope of each audit; developing and adjusting audit guides when necessary to meet special or unusual circumstances; and participating in entrance and exit conferences with auditees (city, county, state, and/or EAC officials). The AIGA supervises the work of subordinates, if any, and monitors the work of contractors.
Plans, conducts, and manages complex audits; develops strategies to facilitate the audit planning process; analyzes and assesses the impact of proposed changes to Federal programs; and participates in the development of long-range strategic plans, annual audit plans and audit policies and procedures. The AIGA assists the IG in managing the office budget; performs or assists the IG in performing annual self-assessments of the quality of the EAC OIG's audits and other related activities; develops recommendations for improvements; tracks recommendations until corrected; and assists the IG in implementing corrective actions to improve quality.
Assists in the development of Independent Government Cost Estimates (IGCEs) and detailed, written statements of requirements to include technical requirements for use in soliciting contracts for audit, investigation, inspection, evaluation, or other services. Develops technical evaluation plans, and related rating criteria to evaluate contractor proposals and participates in Technical Evaluation Panels (TEPs). Prepares or assists in preparing award recommendations based on results of TEP evaluations. Assists in overseeing contractor performance by reviewing deliverables for acceptance or rejection, reviewing contractor invoices, maintaining appropriate oversight documentation, and preparing formal contractor evaluations. The AIGA will complete training and perform the steps necessary to obtain and maintain certification as a Contracting Officer's Representative (COR), Level II.
If you use public transportation, part of your transportation costs may be subsidized. Our human resources office can provide additional information on how this program is run.
Alternative work schedule options may be available after an established waiting period.
Qualifications
Candidates must have a degree in accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. (The term "accounting" means "accounting and/or auditing" in this standard. Similarly, "accountant" should be interpreted, generally, as "accountant and/or auditor.) See additional qualification requirements for the 0511 Auditor series via the link below.
Specialized Experience:
Candidates must have experience in managing or directing financial, information systems, and/or performance audits in accordance with Government Auditing Standards and experience in communicating or presenting audit results to senior executives and other stakeholders. Certification as a Certified Public Accountant, Certified Internal Auditor, and/or Certified Information Systems Auditor is highly desirable. Experience with or knowledge of Federal grants and/or contracts and familiarity with the operation of a Federal Office of Inspector General is also desirable.
Proficiency in conducting audits in accordance with Government Auditing Standards;
Work history showing successful advancement with progressively more responsibilities;
Excellent oral and written communication skills;
Leadership skills and abilities;
Ability to maintain high professional and ethical standards and quality of work with little or no supervision.
Foreign Education: If you are using education completed in foreign colleges or universities to meet the qualification requirements, you must show that the education credentials have been evaluated by a private organization that specializes in interpretation of foreign education programs and such education has been deemed equivalent to that gained in an accredited U.S. education program; or full credit has been given for the courses at a U.S. accredited college or university. For further information, visit: http://www.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ous/international/usnei/us/edlite-visitus-forrecog.htm
In addition, when reviewing applicant's transcripts, assumptions will not be made. Applicants MUST state which coursework is relevant.
Additional information
Candidates must meet all qualifications prior to the closing date of this announcement.
Candidates must be a US Citizen.
You must submit all required information by the closing date. If materials are not received, your application will be evaluated solely on the information available and you may not receive full consideration or may not be considered eligible.
The materials you send with your application will not be returned.
Send only those materials needed to evaluate your application. Please do not place your application in a notebook or binder.
The U.S. Election Assistance Commission is an Equal Opportunity Employer. This Office prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, disability, marital status or political affiliation.
A career with the U.S. government provides employees with a comprehensive benefits package. As a federal employee, you and your family will have access to a range of benefits that are designed to make your federal career very rewarding. Opens in a new windowLearn more about federal benefits.
Eligibility for benefits depends on the type of position you hold and whether your position is full-time, part-time or intermittent. Contact the hiring agency for more information on the specific benefits offered.
How you will be evaluated
You will be evaluated for this job based on how well you meet the qualifications above.
Once the application process is complete, a review of your resume/application will be made to ensure you meet the qualification and job requirements for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully. Your qualifications will be evaluated on the basis of your level of knowledge, skills, abilities, and/or competencies.
Technical Competencies:
Comprehensive knowledge of
Areas of vulnerability to fraud, waste, and mismanagement in the operation of Federal Government programs and
Auditing and accounting principles, procedures, and professional standards (especially Government Auditing Standards) with particular emphasis on competence in performing or overseeing audits of (1) federal agency financial statements; (2) compliance with Federal requirements for information systems security; (3) federal contracts; and/or (4) federal funds expended by state, territorial, and local units of government.
Excellent oral and written communication skills, including the ability to communicate with individuals from a variety of backgrounds at all levels of various organizations, up to and including senior executives and elected officials or their staffs at the state, local, or Federal level.
Ability to develop statements of work and task orders for contracted audit services, evaluate contractor proposals, and monitor contractor staff; (or experience in preparing proposals in response to Federal agencies' requests for contracted audit services); to manage or direct financial statement and/or information systems audits performed under contract with a Federal OIG; and/or to manage or direct audits of contracts awarded in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulations.
Ability to develop high quality data, reports, correspondence or other materials under pressures of tight deadlines and to review audit plans, programs, and reports as necessary to determine sufficiency of work performed and adherence to applicable professional standards and guidelines..
Ability to manage multiple concurrent audits, inspections, evaluations, investigations, or other projects effectively and within time constraints. Ability to think strategically and develop long- and short-term plans for OIG projects.
Flexibility to be able to adapt nimbly to changing circumstances.
A career with the U.S. government provides employees with a comprehensive benefits package. As a federal employee, you and your family will have access to a range of benefits that are designed to make your federal career very rewarding. Opens in a new windowLearn more about federal benefits.
Eligibility for benefits depends on the type of position you hold and whether your position is full-time, part-time or intermittent. Contact the hiring agency for more information on the specific benefits offered.
Failure to provide all of the required information as stated in this vacancy announcement may result in an ineligible rating or may affect the overall rating.
You must submit your application so that it will be received by the closing date of the announcement.
Your application package must include the following:
A resume
If you are a current or former federal employee with reinstatement eligibility, you must submit a copy of your last Notification of Personnel Action (SF50) showing your position, title, series, grade and eligibility; and
a copy of your most recent performance appraisal. If you do not have a recent performance appraisal, please explain why.
Failure to provide all of the required information as stated in this vacancy announcement may result in an ineligible rating or may affect the overall rating.
You must submit your application so that it will be received by the closing date of the announcement.
Your application package must include the following:
A resume
If you are a current or former federal employee with reinstatement eligibility, you must submit a copy of your last Notification of Personnel Action (SF50) showing your position, title, series, grade and eligibility; and
a copy of your most recent performance appraisal. If you do not have a recent performance appraisal, please explain why.