Printelect is a dynamic and well-established regional election technology & services company with a proven track record in ballot printing, mail services, and a diverse portfolio of election products. With over fifty employees and one hundred twenty years of industry-leading experience, we take pride in our commitment to excellence and customer satisfaction. We partner with local governments throughout Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia to provide products, services, and support for the conduct and administration of Federal, State, and local elections.
Required Qualifications:
Minimum 4-year degree (or equivalent work experience) in a field that supports multi-level business or government enterprises with an emphasis on a broad communication and data management skill set.
Experience utilizing end-user data entry management or spreadsheet -driven workloads.
Experience in Microsoft Office (especially Excel) and Adobe Acrobat are required.
Excellent interpersonal written and conversational communication skills with end-users, customers, and co-workers.
Focused work ethic with precise attention to accuracy and detail in an environment driven by firm deadlines.
Excellent proofreading, quality control, and inventory management skills.
Ability to work discreetly and adhere to strict security and confidentiality requirements.
Ability to multitask and prioritize this position’s various initiatives and responsibilities during high-volume workloads.
Any prior IT work experience with network troubleshooting, workstation troubleshooting and configuration (primarily Windows-based), and file server maintenance is highly desired but not required.
Ability to convert our internal processes and procedures into actionable training materials and in-person trainings.
Knowledge of government structures as it relates to elected offices and/or prior experience in elections administration is a plus.
Job Duties and Responsibilities:
Work with our county and city official customers to translate their jurisdictional requirements and candidate data into formats used by voting equipment software.
Utilize proprietary election management software, Microsoft Office, and Adobe Suite to build jurisdiction-specific databases, format paper and electronic ballots, and configure voting equipment to utilize those datasets.
Provide phone and on-site support for our customers and troubleshoot any issues that arise.
Communicate and cross-train with internal departments to facilitate accurate election preparation and good customer service.
Develop a comprehensive understanding of all manufacturer hardware and software manuals, and be able to effectively communicate that information to team members and customers.
Stay up to date on all new software updates and hardware offerings.
Participate in on-site customer training and election day support.
Physical Demands:
Must be able to stand, sit, or bend for extended periods of time.
Must be able to lift and/or move up to thirty (30) pounds.
Occasionally required to help with order fulfillment.
Must be able to operate a non-commercial (“standard”) motor vehicle for this position’s travel responsibilities.
Travel:
This position is expected to travel approximately 10% of the time annually during off-election years, and 25% of the time annually during on-election years.
Business expenses and mileage incurred while traveling on behalf of Printelect will be compensated.
3 / 3
Compensation and Location:
Compensation for this position is set at a range of $55,000.00-60,000.00 per year. This is a salaried, exempt position. This position’s salary will be commensurate with level of demonstrated experience.
Applicants for this position must be located within 30 miles of Garner, North Carolina.
This position will be based at our Garner, North Carolina facility and will be expected to report to the office in-person when not traveling.
Benefits:
Health insurance, dental insurance, short-term disability benefits, life insurance, 401k retirement benefits, and paid time off (“PTO”) benefits are offered to all employees after the applicable probationary period.
Seniority level
Entry level
Employment type
Full-time
Job function
Information Technology
Industries
Manufacturing
Referrals increase your chances of interviewing at Printelect by 2x