=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Election Services Supervisor
Salary: $81,439.42 - $98,992.10 YEAR
Location: Santa Rosa, CA, CA, 95403
Employer: County of Sonoma (CA)
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2025-04-08
Job Type: Full-Time
Job Number: 25/04-0267-O
Department: Clerk-Recorder-Assessor (CRA)
Division: CCLK - Registrar of Voters (1930)
Opening Date: 04/08/2025
Closing Date: 6/9/2025 5:00 PM Pacific
Bargaining Unit: 95

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===




Do you have supervisory experience and a background in election operations? 
The County of Sonoma Registrar of Voters is hiring an Election Services Supervisor - Apply Today!






Starting salary up to $47.43/hour ($98,992/year) plus a competitive total compensation package!*

What We Offer

Working at the County of Sonoma offers expansive opportunities for growth and development, the ability to be a part of a challenging and rewarding work environment, and the satisfaction of knowing you're working to better our communities. You can also look forward to flexible work arrangements and excellent benefits* including:


Salary Advancement - A salary increase after 1,040 hours (6 months when working full-time) for good work performance; eligibility for a salary increase for good performance every year thereafter, until reaching the top of the salary range
Paid Time Off - Competitive vacation and sick leave accruals, 12 paid holidays, and an additional 8 floating holiday hours per year
County Paid Health Premium Contributions - 100% premium contribution for the majority of employee-only and employee + family health plan options
Staff Development/Wellness Pay - Annual benefit allowances of up to $500 and ongoing education/training opportunities
Post-Retirement Health Reimbursement Arrangement - County contributions to help fund post-retirement employee health insurance/benefits
Retirement - A pension fully integrated with Social Security
Paid Parental Leave - May be eligible for up to 8 weeks (320 hours) after 12 months of County employment
Student Loan Debt Relief – County employees may be eligible for Public Service Loan Forgiveness through the U.S. Department of Education

The Registrar of Voters

Within the Registrar of Voters, this Election Services Supervisor (Voter Registration) collaborates with the elections management team to ensure proper elections procedures are followed by staff, and provides supervision, training, and support to elections operations. They develop and implement elections office procedures to enhance efficiency and identify opportunities for improving voter services and the overall election experience. Additional responsibilities include:


Ensuring compliance with election deadlines, policies, and procedures.
Monitoring critical election process timelines and ensuring that staff are meeting deadlines
Supervising voter registration staff including assigning tasks, coaching staff, managing workloads and evaluating staff performance
Training seasonal, extra-help staff during critical junctures of election cycles
Managing voter registration and ensuring compliance with applicable regulations
Assisting with gathering information for Public Records Act (PRA) requests

The ideal candidate will have a passion for election administration and voter engagement, and an understanding of election codes and laws related to elections with related research experience. They will be an energetic, enthusiastic, collaborative leader and will possess many of the following:


Excellent verbal and written communication skills, including strong proofreading abilities
Supervisory experience, which includes hiring, onboarding, training, and the ability to effectively mentor staff and manage performance and/or disciplinary processes
The ability to work independently and the willingness to ask questions to ensure comprehension
Strong research skills to stay informed about changes in election laws and best practices
Strong customer service skills in a fast-paced working environment and skilled in conflict resolution and de-escalation techniques
Adaptable to changing priorities in a high-pressure environment during election time
Proficiency in Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, Outlook)

*Salary is negotiable within the established range. Benefits described herein do not represent a contract and may be changed without notice. Additional information can be found in the Service Employees International Union Local 1021 Memorandum Of Understanding (SEIU MOU) and our Employee Benefits directory.

This recruitment is being conducted to fill an Election Services Supervisor position in the Registrar of Voters. This employment list may also be used to fill future full-time, part-time, or extra-help (temporary) positions as they occur during the active status of the list. County employees who wish to be considered for future positions should consider applying to this recruitment. 







APPLICATION SUBMISSIONS REQUIRE THE SUPPLEMENTAL QUESTIONNAIRE BE COMPLETED.

Experience: Any combination of work experience and training which would provide an opportunity to acquire the knowledge and abilities listed. Normally, four years of increasingly responsible office support work, which includes substantial customer service including one year as a lead worker in an office environment, would provide this opportunity. One year working in an election environment is highly desirable.

Education: Any combination of education and training which would provide the opportunity to acquire the knowledge and abilities listed. Normally, formal course work or training in such areas as law and legal documents, management information systems, or electronic data processing is desirable.

License: Possession of a valid driver’s license at the appropriate level including necessary special endorsements, as required by the State of California to perform the essential job functions of the position.

Thorough knowledge of: the California Elections and Government Codes, as well as other applicable laws and ordinances, as they pertain to the conduct of elections and the registration of voters.

Considerable knowledge of: modern office methods and procedures; written and oral communication, including language mechanics, syntax and English composition.

Working knowledge of: the principles of supervision, training and instructional methods and techniques; work flow and data collection needs of the Registrar of Voter’s Office; the efficient filing and records management concepts as they relate to both manual and data processing systems; the use of electronic information equipment and specific systems as used within the department.

Ability to: understand, interpret, and apply rules, regulations, ordinances, and state and federal legislation; plan and organize research and statistical work relating to the various aspects of administration and general management matters; effectively communicate orally and in writing, and present conclusions before advisory and policy bodies; effectively supervise the work of technical and clerical employees; carry out departmental policies and procedures; establish and maintain under extensive pressure effective working relationships with staff, election officials and with the public; operate election-related computer equipment and run elections software; understand and follow written and oral instructions; analyze situations and make logical conclusions; compare and check names and numbers accurately and quickly; make arithmetic calculations; use a variety of office equipment such as typewriters, calculators, and personal computers; safely lift and move heavy and bulky objects; maintain accurate records, inventories, files and indexes; prepare reports and correspondence; work long and irregular hours and weekends as assigned.

Your application information and your responses to the supplemental questions are evaluated and taken into consideration throughout the entire selection process.
You should list all employers and positions held within the last ten years in the work history section of your application. Be as thorough as possible when responding to the supplemental questions.
You may include history beyond ten years if related to the position for which you are applying. If you held multiple positions with one employer, list out each position separately.
Failure to follow these instructions may impact your competitiveness in this process or may result in disqualification.
Please visit Getting a Job with the County of Sonoma to review more detailed information about the hiring process, including the application process, examination steps, and department selection process.


APPLICATION SUBMISSIONS REQUIRE THE SUPPLEMENTAL QUESTIONNAIRE BE COMPLETED.


Responses to supplemental questions will be scored using position-specific criteria. Please provide specific and detailed responses of a reasonable length to allow for a thorough assessment of your qualifications. Responses that state "See Resume" or "See Application" may be considered insufficient and therefore may not be scored.

The selection procedure will consist of the following examination:



An Application & Supplemental Questionnaire Appraisal Examination (weight 100%). Each application and supplemental questionnaire will be thoroughly evaluated for satisfaction of minimum qualifications and relevance of educational coursework, training, experience, knowledge, and abilities that relate to this position. Candidates possessing the most appropriate job-related qualifications will be placed on an employment list and referred to the department for selection interviews.




ADDITIONAL INFORMATION




A background investigation is required prior to employment. Candidates referred to departments for a selection interview are typically required to sign authorization and release forms enabling such an investigation. Failure to sign prescribed forms will result in the candidate not being considered further for that vacancy. Reference information will not be made available to applicants.




Additional requirements, such as successful completion of a physical exam, drug screen, etc., may apply, depending on the duties and responsibilities of the position. If you receive a conditional job offer for the position, the requirements upon which the offer is contingent will be outlined in the conditional job letter. You may also review theJob Classification Screening Scheduleto determine the requirements for this position.

HOW TO APPLY

Applications are accepted online atwww.yourpath2sonomacounty.org. Paper applications may be submitted by person, fax (707-565-3770), email, or through the mail. All applications and appropriate supplemental information as outlined in the job bulletin must be RECEIVED by the time and date specified on the first page of this job announcement. Continuous recruitments may close without notice at any time that a sufficient number of qualified applications have been received. Applications received after the recruitment closes will not be accepted.

The County of Sonoma values diversity and is dedicated to creating a workplace environment that provides individuals with a sense of belonging. We are committed to having a diverse workforce that is representative of the communities we serve. The County is proud to be an Equal Opportunity Employer where all aspects of employment are based on merit, competence, performance, and business need.



HR Analyst: JT
HR Technician: KK

IMPORTANT NOTE: Benefits described herein do not apply to Extra Help positions.COUNTY OF SONOMA BENEFITS: GENERAL*These are some of the excellent benefits the County offers: Paid Time Off: Competitive vacation and sick leave accruals; 12 paid holidays, and an additional 8 floating holiday hours per year; and may be eligible for up to 8 weeks (320 hours) of Paid Parental Leave after 12 months of County employment. Health Plan: Choose from nine health plans (three HMOs, three deductible HMOs, and three HSA-qualifying plans) with a generous County contribution to the premium (the contribution amount varies by bargaining unit). For more information, please see the appropriate MOU.Retirement: Fully integrated with Social Security. For more information regarding eligibility, retirement contributions, and reciprocity with prior public service, please visit https://scretire.org/active-/-deferred/when-you-are-hired. IRS 457 Plan: Pre-tax employee contribution up to the IRS annual maximum. Retiree Medical: County contribution to a Health Reimbursement Arrangement to help fund post-retirement employee health insurance/benefits.Student Loan Debt Relief: County employees may be eligible for Public Service Loan Forgiveness through the U.S. Department of Education.Plus excellent dental, vision, disability, life insurance, professional development, and more.For answers to specific questions regarding the employment process and more details about benefits or retirement, please contact Human Resources at (707) 565-2331. Additional details about benefit and compensation packages can be found in the MOUs located at https://sonomacounty.ca.gov/administrative-support-and-fiscal-services/human-resources/divisions-and-units/employee-relations/labor-agreements-and-salary-resolution. For specific information about health and welfare benefits including plan options, coverage, and premium amounts go to https://sonomacounty.ca.gov/administrative-support-and-fiscal-services/human-resources or, contact the Human Resources' Risk Management-Benefits Office at benefits@sonoma-county.org or (707) 565-2900.*IMPORTANT NOTES: Benefits described herein do not represent a contract and may be changed without notice.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        How did you first learn about this opportunity?
        
        
                Careers in Government
                College or University
                County of Sonoma Human Resources Office
                Craigslist
                DiversityJobs
                Employee of Sonoma County
                Facebook
                Glassdoor
                GovernmentJobs.com
                Handshake
                Indeed
                Instagram
                Job Fair
                La Voz
                Latino Service Providers
                LinkedIn
                Los Cien
                Press Democrat
                sonoma-county.org/www.yourpath2sonomacounty.org
                Start Here!
                X (Twitter)
                Veterans Services Office
                Women's Organization or Group
                Other Internet Site
                Other Publication
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Please indicate if you would also be interested in future part-time or extra-help (temporary, intermittent, or seasonal employment) positions should they become available.  Check all that apply.
        
        
                I would also like to be considered for future part-time positions
                I would also like to be considered for future extra-help positions
                I am only interested in full-time positions
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        This eligible list may be used for future bilingual (English/Spanish) positions. Please indicate if you are interested in bilingual positions, and your level of proficiency.
        
        
                Yes, I have basic (conversational) English/Spanish bilingual skills
                Yes, I have fluent (reading, writing, and conversational) English/Spanish bilingual skills
                No, I do not have English/Spanish bilingual skills, and/or I do not wish to be considered for a bilingual position
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        For this question and all subsequent questions, please provide sufficient information to allow for a thorough evaluation of your qualifications. Responses to supplemental questions may be scored using specific criteria and may be reviewed by hiring managers.

Please detail how you meet the minimum qualifications for this position, which normally includes a combination of:
 Four years of increasingly responsible office support work, which includes substantial customer service including one year as a lead worker in an office environment
AND
Coursework and training in areas such as law and legal documents, management information systems, or electronic data processing.

For your years of experience, include your job title(s), employer's name(s), dates of employment (mm/yy - mm/yy), and a description of your primary responsibilities.
        
        
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Please describe your professional experience in a lead role. Detail responsibilities you performed relating to:

 Developing/mentoring employees
 Staff selection/hiring
 Planning work assignments
 Progressive discipline
        
        
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Please describe a time when you recommended a process or procedural change in order to help improve your work group's efficiency/accuracy. Provide details about the situation, how you presented your idea to management, and the outcome of your recommendation.
        
        
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Please describe your experience working in an election environment. Highlight the California Elections and Government Codes, as well as any other applicable laws and ordinances you worked with, and how you ensured you stayed in compliance.
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        