2024 Election
Explore all of our post-election data on the participation and impact of young voters.
The Youth Vote in 2024
Based on data available immediately after the 2024 election, CIRCLE released comprehensive analyses on the vote choice of different groups of youth, their key issues, and how they shaped election results.
Youth Poll
The first analysis from our poll of youth ages 18-34, with data by race, gender, and education.
Detailed Data about Young Voters and Nonvoters
The CIRCLE Post-2024 Election Youth Poll captures the views and attitudes of young Americans immediately after the 2024 election. It shines a light on structural on motivational barriers for youth who did not vote and some profound inequities among youth.
College Voting
Check out key data from our NSLVE study on college student voting in the 2024 election.
Early NSLVE Data on Student Voting in 2024
CIRCLE's National Study of Learning, Voting, and Engagement is the nation's only objective measure of college student registration and voting. Early data on the 2024 election confirms that the student vote remains high.
Youth + Media
Explore CIRCLE research on how different types of media ecosystems intersect with youth voter turnout.
Six Profiles of Media Ecosystems
News outlets, local nonprofits, digital access, and more form a community's media ecosystem. A strong one can give youth access to the information and support they need to vote and engage in civic life. A weak media ecosystem may leave youth without the knowledge and tools they need and lead to lower turnout.
Growing Voters
Something big needs to change in how we prepare youth to vote, expand the electorate, and create a more equitable and representative democracy.
A New Paradigm to Expand the Electorate
CIRCLE Growing Voters is a new report and framework that challenges institutions and communities to take an active role in equitably preparing the next generation of voters to participate in democracy. Join us on June 14 as we release a major report and launch this initiative.
Youth Attitudes about Democracy
A major CIRCLE report, produced in partnership with Protect Democracy, examines young people's attitudes toward our system of government.
Civic Engagement and Afterschool Programs
A report from the Afterschool Alliance, co-produced by CIRCLE, examines the potential for civic learning and participation in afterschool programs.
Supporting Young Leaders
CIRCLE's Young Leaders Learning Community helped youth learn valuable civic skills and provided insights on working effectively with young leaders and organizers.
Latest Research
25 Things We Learned about Young Voters in 2025
25 data points from CIRCLE research released in 2025, covering everything from elections to the issues and movements that ignited civic engagement.
Classroom Climate for Civic Development: Evidence from Scholarship and Practice
Recent research on civic learning, and CIRCLE's own work evaluating a civics curriculum, underscores the importance of treating classrooms as civic institutions.
“Ripe For Organizing”: Youth Civic Engagement Lessons from Alabama
Our analysis of the landscape of youth participation in Alabama highlights challenges and opportunities in a state with a rich history of civic action.
Youth Lack Community Connections that Are Critical to Civic Engagement
Half of young people are not spending time with others in person, and those youth are less likely to vote and participate in civic life.
More than Half of College Students Voted in 2024
New data from CIRCLE's National Study of Learning, Voting, and Engagement (NSLVE) highlights the continued engagement of college students.