=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Technology Specialist
Salary: $64,764.00 - $93,240.00 YEAR
Location: Boulder, CO, CO, 80302
Employer: Boulder County
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2022-06-29
Job Type: Full-time
Job Number: 4604(PC2)
Department: Clerk and Recorders Office
Division: CLK Elections
Opening Date: 06/30/2022
Closing Date: 7/18/2022 11:59 PM Mountain
FLSA: Exempt

BENEFITS:
  • a family-friendly workplace, including paid caregiver leave, a breast feeding friendly-work environment, sick child care, an infants-at-work policy, and generous paid vacation, medical leave, and holidays
  • the opportunity to take charge of your well-being through a nationally-recognized wellness program, employee assistance program, and the choice of comprehensive health plans that include vision and dental coverage
  • peace of mind for the future with PERA pension, PERA 401k, and Social Security retirement plans, in addition to life and disability insurance, as well as critical illness and accidental insurance options
  • the opportunity to master new skills with robust learning programs and certificates, federal loan forgiveness (after ten years of public service), and county-paid tuition assistance for continuing education
  • Free EcoPass that can be used any time and for commuting to and from work, to the Denver Intranational Airport and Fort Collins and on all bus and rail lines operated by RTD. Opportunity to sign up for a free BCycle membership for bike share in Boulder.

For more information about benefits, visit the Jobs page: https://bouldercounty.gov/jobs/jobs-benefits/

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===




The Boulder County Clerk and Recorder's Office has an opening for an Elections Technology Specialist. This position will perform a variety of complex, technical, and specialized tasks related to elections technology, software/hardware support, and voting systems.

About the division
The Elections Division provides comprehensive elections services for Boulder County, including voter records, voter services, ballot processing, technical and logistical support, and end-to end election administration. Commitment to building an inclusive, forward looking, continual improvement, and supportive work culture is required.

About the team
The Elections Division is passionate about the work we do for democracy, and we are committed to facilitating the highest quality elections in the country. We set a high bar for fulfilling our commitment to voters in Boulder County, and we are a national award-winning organization with a reputation for excellence, innovation, accuracy, and continual improvement.

Commitment to ensuring we include historically excluded communities in our administration is vital to fulfilling our mission of facilitating democracy. This person must be committed to building a culture where individuals from any background can be successful, which includes ongoing work around disrupting patterns, systems, and behaviors of inequity and exclusion.

About the position
This position will play a significant role in facilitating activities which provide improved technology solutions to county staff. This position will be expected to execute a variety of tasks to ensure our team meets our deliverables to provide excellent public service for voters.

The ideal candidate must be eager to learn, possess troubleshooting skills, can convey technical information to non-technical audiences and has the ability to document process through conversation, implementation, and observation. Successful applicants will be comfortable in a high-stakes, team-focused work environment. We seek a person who is process-oriented and motivated to do meaningful work that facilitates the democratic process.

The ideal candidate is self-motivated, enjoys actively participating in a collaborative environment, and possesses excellent written and verbal communication skills. They have the demonstrated ability to use complicated software, learn and convey user technology requirements, perform moderately sophisticated tasks in MS Excel and Access, learn and apply new skills effectively with minimal support, and communicate technical information (written and verbal) to nontechnical personnel. Additionally, the ideal candidate can demonstrate creativity and innovation through problem-solving. Ability to work effectively under pressure while remaining positive and flexible is also key to success.

This position is expected to build strong working relationships with team members, vendors and stakeholders and be committed to Boulder County and Clerk and Recorder guiding values, including equity and inclusion. 

This is a full-time, benefitted position.  This position will require overtime, nights and weekends during election season and is subject to periods of time when vacation scheduling is not allowed (because of the election calendar). The Elections Technology Specialist will work Monday-Thursday (10-hour day) 40 hours per week during non-election time; this includes both in-office and telecommuting options at certain points in the year.  This position will work out of the Boulder County Clerk and Recorder's Office, located at 1750 33rd St., Boulder, CO 80301.  Under Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA), this position is exempt. 

Boulder County requires its employees to reside in the state of Colorado as of the first day of work.
 

Hiring Salary Range: $59,964.00 - $73,146.00 Annually
Classification Salary Range: $59,964.00 - $86,328.00 Annually 


Tentative Hiring Timeline:

Phone Screening: July 27th
First Round Interviews:  August 1st
Second Round Interviews: August 4th


 
Plan, schedule, and execute election processes and programs related to areas of responsibility

Vote Center (Voter Service and Polling Center) equipment testing, setup, and troubleshooting. This includes travel to up to 20 Vote Centers in Boulder County during election time

Partner with others to ensure voting system hardware and software components are updated, maintained, tested, and secure

Assist with producing and maintaining geographical information (ARCGIS) and maps for Elections division

Learn and identify development needs for county developed software applications

Responsible for the training and supervision of temporary workers, ensuring accuracy and of work completed

Ensure compliance with Colorado statute and rule as well as Clerk and Recorder policies and procedures for areas of responsibility

Work with election division and other county partners to identify and adopt best-in-class practices, procedures, and technology solutions

Create and maintain standard operating procedure (SOP) documents

Instill confidence in temporary staff by demonstrating integrity and approachability

Present information to audiences with varying technical backgrounds

Act as backup for peers, learning essential technology and procedures in other areas to support critical team functions
o Example areas: database management and reporting, Cybersecurity, GIS, and working with other departments in the development of tools and systems

Support and collaborate on special projects outside of the elections cycle, improving processes and systems within the scope of elections

Performs related work, as required
May be reassigned in emergency situations

PLEASE NOTE: When submitting your application be sure to include all relevant education and experience, as applications are screened based on the qualifications listed in this position announcement. Applications that do not appear to meet minimum qualifications, as outlined below, will not be considered. Resumes are not accepted in lieu of completed applications.
 
Please be aware that your cover letter and resume will not be accessed in the initial screening process, so you must complete your application and supplemental questions with as much detail as possible. Any personally identifiable information (PII) such as name and address will be redacted from applications that meet the minimum screening requirements and are forwarded to the hiring manager. If the hiring manager selects you to advance in the hiring process, your cover letter and resume will then be accessible to the hiring team.

EDUCATION & EXPERIENCE:
Boulder County is looking for well qualified candidates to fill our positions. Any combination of relevant education and experience is encouraged. In this position, we are looking for a minimum of six years of combined education and professional experience in a technology related capacity as it applies to this position.  Required experience includes applying fundamental concepts, practices and procedures related to planning, setup, testing, and troubleshooting of a variety of hardware, software, and network components.  Any equivalent combination of education and experience may be considered. 

BACKGROUND CHECK:

A job offer is contingent on passing a criminal background investigation

PREFERRED QUALIFCATIONS:
ArcGIS, advanced Microsoft Excel and Access (forms, reports, linked and embedded tables), Powershell, C# or other scripting language, SQL/TSQL, SharePoint, public speaking experience, and project management
Experience in compliance and security driven environment where security and audit processes are enforced

KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, & ABILITIES:
Thorough knowledge of supported hardware and software systems
Ability to troubleshoot and solve a variety of technical problems
Ability to communicate procedures of a technical nature to non-technical personnel both orally and in written form
Ability to perform a variety of project tasks requiring good communications skills
Ability to work effectively with other employees
 

Boulder County is a family-friendly workplace dedicated to fostering a diverse, inclusive, and respectful environment for all employees. We prohibit unlawful discrimination against applicants and employees on the basis of race, color, religion, gender, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, socio-economic status, sexual orientation, genetic information, or any other status protected by applicable federal, state, or local law.

 


 