=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Language Access and Outreach Coordinator (Chinese)
Salary: $38.38 - $48.65 HOUR
Location: WA 98057-2906, WA, WA, 98104
Employer: King County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2025-01-13
Job Type: Career Service, Full Time, 40 hrs/week
Job Number: 2025RL23637
Department: KCE - King County Elections
Division: Election Outreach
Opening Date: 01/13/2025
Closing Date: 3/20/2025 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Non-Exempt
Bargaining Unit: F3A : L117-P&T
Full- or Part-Time: Full Time
Hours/Week: 40 hours/week

BENEFITS:
  • Excellent medical, dental, and vision coverage options: King County provides eligible employees with options, so they can decide what’s best for themselves and their eligible dependents
  • Life and disability insurance: employees are provided basic coverage and given the opportunity to purchase additional insurance for both the employee and eligible dependents
  • Retirement: eligible King County employees may participate in a pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems and a 457(b) deferred-compensation plan
  • Transportation program and ORCA transit pass
  • 12 paid holidays each year plus two personal holidays
  • Generous vacation and paid sick leave
  • Paid parental, family and medical, and volunteer leaves
  • Flexible Spending Account
  • Wellness programs
  • Onsite activity centers
  • Employee Giving Program
  • Employee assistance programs
  • Flexible schedules and telecommuting options, depending on position
  • Training and career development programs

For additional information about employee benefits, visit our
Benefits, Payroll, and Retirement Page
.
This is a general description of the benefits offered to eligible King County employees, and every effort has been made to ensure its accuracy.  If any information on this document conflicts with the provisions of a collective bargaining agreement (CBA), the CBA prevails.
NOTE:
Benefits for Term Limited Temporary (TLT) or Short Term Temporary (STT) positions, including leave eligibility and/or participation in the pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems, will vary based upon the terms and details of the position. Short Term Temporary positions are not eligible for an ORCA transit pass.
For inquiries about the specifics of this position, please contact the recruiter identified on this job posting.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

This is an amazing opportunity to be engaged in the election process!  The Department of Elections is searching for energetic and resourceful professionals who like to "get stuff done". The Language Access and Outreach Coordinator position in the Elections Department combines an exciting, fast paced environment with the opportunity to cultivate talents and apply a variety of skills. The ideal candidate will thrive in a collaborative, innovative, and fast-paced environment and will not hesitate to roll up both sleeves, work hard, have fun, and get the job done.   

The Language Services and Community Engagement Team at King County Elections provides language access work for the whole Elections Department, translating election materials into six languages (Chinese, Korean, Russian, Somali, Spanish, and Vietnamese). In addition, the Team works collaboratively across Department and with community to identify and remove barriers to voting. These communities include those who are disabled, experiencing houselessness, immigrants, youth, and those with limited mobility. 

This team is recruiting a Language Access and Outreach Coordinator who will support the program for the Chinese language. This position provides bilingual assistance, translation, and community outreach support. This individual must be able to read, write, understand, and speak Chinese at the language proficiency testing level used by the Department. In addition, as part of the community engagement program, this individual will participate in voter registration and voter education activities with community partners and provide support to our Voter Education Fund partners. This position will provide language access assistance to our communications team and administrative support to other election work groups as needed.  

Who We Are: King County Elections (KCE) manages voter registrations and elections for more than 1.4 million voters in King County, one of the largest vote-by-mail counties in the United States. KCE's mission is to conduct accessible, secure, and accurate elections.   As a leader in providing inclusive elections, KCE is focused on core values of accuracy, equity, integrity, service, teamwork, and transparency. The team at KCE is committed to ensuring all King County voters can get registered, cast their ballot, and make their voices heard. Learn more at www.kingcounty.gov/elections.aspx  

WHO MAY APPLY:  This position is open to the general public and all King County employees. This position is open until filled.  Applications submitted by February 6th will be part of the first round of review and interviews. 

WORK LOCATION: The work site for this position is the Elections Building located at 919 SW Grady Way in Renton. The work associated with this position will be performed through a combination of teleworking complemented with onsite work and meetings as needed. Employees must reside in Washington state and within a reasonable distance to their King County worksite and field sites to respond to workplace reporting requirements.  

WORK SCHEDULE:  The standard workweek for this full-time position is Monday through Friday, 40 hours per week. We require the flexibility to work additional hours during peak periods of the election cycle. This position is non-exempt according to the Fair Labor Standards Act and is eligible for overtime pay.  

REQUIRED MATERIALS:  A resume and cover letter are required and should be attached before submitting your application.  The cover letter should describe how your skills and experiences meet or exceed the requirements of the job.  Applications without the required materials may not be considered for this position.  Please make sure to address the following in your resume and/or cover letter:

Complete work history, including work done outside of the U.S.
Example of types of documents translated (for example, technical writing, court documents, advertisements, etc.).
Community engagement and outreach experience, including volunteer, activism, social clubs, and religious communities.
Please make sure to answer the supplemental questions in detail. 

1.  Translation:

Work closely with Language Access and Community Outreach Team to provide timely, high-quality translations for Chinese language speakers in King County.
Work collaboratively across various teams at Elections to ensure accurate and transparent elections. This includes assisting other teams during peak election periods.
Translate and/or proof election-related materials from English to Chinese, including but not limited to ballots, voters' pamphlet including candidate statements and ballot measures, letters, general correspondence, web, and notice of elections.
Review, edit and proofread all translated documents produced by translation vendors and others, for accuracy, clarity, and consistency. 
Provide oversight of language counterparts and temporary translators which includes distribution of workload, providing direction and training, and monitor the quality and completion of work to meet tight deadlines. 
Improve work processes, address quality control issues, and document procedures.
Research and summarize specialized or technical information from varied sources. This may require selecting the most appropriate material and the use of spreadsheets and customized database applications.

2.  Outreach & Community Engagement:

Seek out and identify outreach opportunities to increase voter education and lower barriers to voting.
Work closely with Language Access and Community Outreach Team to plan and implement innovative outreach tools, including but not limited to non-English communications, technical assistance, and liaising between other King County agencies. 
Provide voter education and voter registration support to community partners.
Support the work of Voter Education Fund Grantees, including regular check-in meetings, providing presentation on voter registration and voter education, event planning and support, and translation.
Participate in the review and implementation processes of the Voter Education Fund. 
Provide presentations and trainings to voters and community partners on election related topics in English and Chinese. 
Collaborate on community research project to improve voter education and outreach.

3.  Customer Service:

Provide bilingual assistance to the public in a professional setting to facilitate communications across language and cultural barriers, specifically answering inquiries from Chinese language voters. 
Handle sensitive and/or potentially challenging customer service situations in Chinese and English. 
Provide back up support to Elections Voter Services Division, which may include providing customer service to voters, processing voter registrations or explaining election procedures, guidelines and regulations.
Provide established policies, procedures, codes, regulations, and other relevant sources, in English and Chinese, to internal and/or external customers in writing, in-person or by telephone. Research and resolve questions, problems, or inquiries from voters, staff, public and/or stakeholders.

Experience and skills in translation of documents from English to Chinese.
High level of language proficiency to include translation, reading, writing and interpretation in both English and Chinese. (Candidates will be tested to determine translation skills and language proficiency.) 
Experience working or volunteering with community and nonprofit organizations, either in the United States or abroad. 
Ability to work under pressure and meet strict deadlines. 
Ability to work both independently and collaboratively as a member of a team. 
Ability to organize work assignments, set priorities, and follow through on work assignments. 
Ability to effectively engage in and sustain relationships with people from diverse cultures and socio-economic backgrounds. 
Ability to understand and appreciate different cultural norms, communication styles, and perspectives.
Ability to be flexible and adjust approach and behavior effectively in response to changing circumstances and situations. 
Skill in problem solving by analyzing complex situations and evaluating potential outcomes to make informed decisions.
Office and computer skills including the use of Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook. 

WE WOULD LOVE IT IF YOU HAVE:

Working knowledge of community organizations, agencies and groups serving Chinese speaking communities in King County. 
Experience doing outreach work with communities who face multiple barriers to voting.
Elections knowledge and experience. 
Working knowledge of InDesign and CAT tools such as TRADOS.

Travel to work locations throughout King County with limited or no public transportation services is required. A valid Washington State Driver's License is required to operate King County vehicles.
 
PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS: The duties in this position are performed in an office setting and may be required to lift at least 25 pounds.
 
UNION: This position is represented by Teamsters Local 117, Professional and Technical union.  
 
CLASSIFICATION TITLE:  Language Services Specialist II - Elections

Hybrid Work Environment 

The work associated with this position will be performed through a combination of teleworking complemented with onsite work and meetings as needed.  Employees must reside in Washington state and within a reasonable distance to their King County worksite to respond to workplace reporting requirements.  Employees will be provided with a County issued laptop and must maintain a workspace with an internet connection (access may be supplemented in some situations) where they can reliably perform work and remain available and responsive during scheduled work hours.  King County has a robust collection of tools and resources to support working remotely. 

Forbes recently named King County as one of Washington State's best employers.  Together, with leadership and our employees, we're changing the way government delivers service and winning national recognition as a model of excellence. Are you ready to make a difference? Come join the team dedicated to serving one of the nation's best places to live, work and play.   

Guided by our "True North", we are making King County a welcoming community where every person can thrive. We value diversity, inclusion and belonging in our workplace and workforce. To reach this goal we are committed to workforce equity. Equitable recruiting, support, and retention is how we will obtain the highest quality workforce in our region; a workforce that shares and will help advance our guiding principles--we are one team; we solve problems; we focus on the customer; we drive for results; we are racially just; we respect all people; we lead the way; and we are responsible stewards. We encourage people of all backgrounds and identities to apply, including Native American and people of color, immigrants, refugees, women, LGBTQ+, people living with disabilities, and veterans.  

King County is an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Employer 

No person is unlawfully excluded from employment opportunities based on race, color, religion, national origin, sex (including gender identity, sexual orientation and pregnancy), age, genetic information, disability, veteran status, or other protected class. Our EEO policy applies to all employment actions, including but not limited to recruitment, hiring, selection for training, promotion, transfer, demotion, layoff, termination, rates of pay or other forms of compensation.    

To Apply  

If you are interested in pursuing this position, please follow the application instructions carefully. If you need this announcement in an alternate language or format, would like to request accommodation or assistance in the application or assessment process or if you have questions please contact your recruiter listed on this job announcement.  

For more information regarding this recruitment, please contact: 

Reeshema Lewis   

Sr. HR Business Partner

Email: Reeshema.Lewis@kingcounty.gov