The City of Palos Verdes Estates is a 4.75 square mile city in southern California, offering beautiful ocean and hillside views, urban forest, and recreational opportunities. With approximately 13,500 residents, the City is known for being a planned community with tranquil neighborhoods and is the oldest of four cities on the Palos Verdes Peninsula. Residents enjoy magnificent views of the Los Angeles Basin and Pacific Ocean, low density, rural character, preserved open space, low crime, and excellent schools. The Office of the City Clerk is responsible for coordination and preparation of City Council meeting agendas and back-up materials, maintenance of the Municipal Code, and election administration, along with publishing legal notices, ordinances, and resolutions, as required by law. The City Clerk also receives, and processes subpoenas, prepares, and coordinates responses to public records requests, prepares and certifies Certificates of Residency (pensioners), and administers the Oath of Office. The City is seeking a collaborative, organized, and highly motivated individual to serve as the next City Clerk. The ideal candidate will bring record-keeping experience, problem solving capabilities, and a proven track record of exercising confidentiality. An honest, ethical, and technically savvy team builder who is cooperative and flexible is essential. The incoming City Clerk should be adaptable and politically astute, promoting a culture of transparency and integrity.
Qualified candidates possess the equivalent to a Bachelor’s degree from an accredited college or university with significant coursework in the areas of Business Administration, Public Administration, or related fields, along with at least five (5) years of increasingly responsible and complex administrative experience in a clerk’s office and two (2) years in a lead or supervisory role. Prior experience as a City Clerk along with possession of a Notary Public Certification is desired. Candidates should also possess a valid California Driver’s License, and a Certified Municipal Clerk designation.
The annual salary range for the City Clerk is $99,756 to $125,028 per year. Placement within this range is dependent on experience and qualifications. The City also offers an excellent benefits package.