=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: ELECTIONS TECHNOLOGY SPECIALIST
Salary: $19.92 - $31.72 HOUR
Location: TX, TX, TX, 76701
Employer: McLennan County (TX)
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2024-06-05
Job Type: Full-Time
Department: ELECTIONS ADMINISTRATION
Opening Date: 06/06/2024
Closing Date: 7/24/2024 8:59 AM Central
FLSA: Non-Exempt

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Under supervision of the Elections Administrator, the Elections Technology Specialist performs complex and technical duties related to activities in overseeing the County’s voting equipment by creating each election’s ballot using ballot origination software, programing and testing the County’s voting equipment with each elections ballot, processing and scanning returned mail-in ballots with the Ballot Board, and maintaining the County’s voting equipment after each election.

Creates each election’s ballot utilizing vendor ballot origination software. Programs voting equipment once ballots have been created
Assists Elections Administrator with proofing and testing the ballot implementations using a State mandated Logic and Accuracy test
Maintains voting equipment inventory and ePollbook laptops. Conducts back up and reset of electronic voting equipment
Maintains and updates Election website and social media accounts pertinent to voting information and ensuring ADA compliance
Assists with planning, directing, coordinating and supervising the electronic process, ensuring that all voter and election records and files are prepared and maintained in a legal manner
Fulfills open records requests pertaining to election records
Operates delivery truck; driving to deliver and pick up Election Day equipment which involves disassembling and reassembling electronic components
Trains and leads election workers in operating voting equipment, as well as other aspects of the Elections office
Compiles State required reports, backups, and audit logs for each election
Provides technical guidance to other Elections staff regarding equipment and software
Maintains voting equipment and systems in accordance with state guidelines; coordinates software and hardware updates, downloads election software and prepares electronic poll books and memory cards
Maintains department laptops, printers and related election equipment
Performs back-up procedures for programs and files
Plans and selects voting machines to be assigned to polling places, track Serial numbers of assigned machines and ensures records of equipment inventory are properly maintained 
Writes and maintains logs of voting equipment issues, work performed and actions taken to fix mechanical and or electronic voting machines
Lead troubleshooting support for voting system hardware, software and network components
Attends vendor training to improve knowledge of election equipment
Corresponds with vendors and the state regarding software issues
Regular attendance and timeliness are required

EDUCATION:
Required:   


Associate’s degree in political science, business administration, public administration, computer science, information technology or a related field, in lieu of degree, minimum 2 years’ experience in a related role plus the required years of experience listed below
 
SKILLS ~ EXPERIENCE:
Required:

2 years’ experience in office administration, logistical support, technology support, or related field
Valid class C driver license and acceptable driving record
Proficient skill in planning, assigning and coordinating activities
Must have experience in computer skills and office software
Current and valid Texas driver’s license and safe driving record
Ability to conduct detailed research and accurately analyze complex issues
Ability to interpret legal documents
Ability to maintain confidentiality and act with discretion
Ability to operate standard office equipment
Work with public in person and by telephone
Must be able to manage time and work with minimal supervision
Must be a registered voter of the State of Texas
Must also be personally bondable
Possess excellent communication skills
Requires some skill in working with numbers in calculating fees/ percentages
Preferred:

Knowledgeable in current Texas Election Code and Federal regulations related to elections
Bilingual proficiency in Spanish

ENVIRONMENTAL FACTORS: Individual works mostly indoors in a well-lighted air-conditioned office with occasional outdoor errands and/or deliveries.
 
PHYSICAL DEMAND REQUIREMENTS:


Frequent sitting, standing, bending and walking
Includes lifting and carrying loads (40-50 lbs.) as well as moving rolling equipment carts (up to 300 lbs.) for distances up to 120 ft.
Continuous reading and communicating both on the telephone and in person
Continuous use of the computer and keyboard 
 
HOURS / SPECIAL CONDITIONS: Hours necessary to complete work requirements. General office hours 8:00 am to 5:00 pm. There are times when it will be necessary to work over 40 hours per week to complete tasks. 

McLennan County will conduct background checks on new hires that will include a criminal background check related to convictions and deferred adjudications in the past seven years and may include credit reports, motor vehicle records, employment records, and educational attainment.   A conviction or deferred adjudication is not an automatic bar to employment.  Each case is considered individually.

McLennan County offers a full range of employee benefit programs for eligible employees and their families. These programs include group health plans for medical with an option to open a Health Saving Account (HSA) with a County-paid contribution of $2000 over a year. We offer dental and vision coverage, an Employee Assistance Program (EAP), life and long & short term disability insurance, flexible spending accounts for health care and dependent care accounts. Employees participate in the Texas County & District Retirement System (TCDRS) with a $2.50 County match for every $1.00 of employee contribution. In addition to these benefits we offer 12 paid holidays and a free gym membership program for health plan participants.*Note: These benefits are for full time McLennan County employees only. Part time Mclennan County employees are only eligible to participate in the Retirement System. Community Supervision and Corrections Department (CSCD) employees recieve a different benefit package through the state. 


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Are you a registered voter of the state of Texas?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Are you a candidate for public office, hold a public office, or hold an office or position in a political party?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        