=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Field Operations Coordinator
Salary: $46,378.00 - $50,678.49 YEAR
Location: San Marcos, TX, TX, 78666
Employer: Hays County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2024-02-25
Job Type: Full-Time Regular
Job Number: 202200596
Department: Elections
Opening Date: 02/26/2024

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===




Essential functions, as defined under the Americans with Disabilities Act, include the responsibilities, knowledge, skills, and other characteristics listed below.  This list of responsibilities is ILLUSTRATIVE ONLY and is not a comprehensive listing of all functions and tasks performed by positions in this class. To perform this job successfully, an individual must be able to perform each essential duty satisfactorily.  Other duties may be assigned. Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions.

 

Summary                                                                                                                     

Reporting directly to Election Network Engineer, responsible for overseeing the inventory, distribution, maintenance, warehouse storage, and logistics of all equipment, voting ballots, and department assets for Hays County Elections Department. Responsible for identifying and reserving polling sites including overseeing the coordination of all polling site compliance and usage. Ensures polling locations follow the Texas Election Code for early voting and election day. Oversees the day-to-day tasks of the election technicians’ program.

Prepares, assigns, and programs all election equipment and distributes them to various polling locations. 
Performs strategic planning for the unit to determine future asset and resource requirements based on the expected population growth of Hays County.
Prepares and monitors the budgets for staff and resources needed to support election activities. 
Determines resources needed to meet service demands.
Provides status reports and updates to the Elections Administrator.
Prepares accident and incident reports.
Ensures that temporary staff are briefed on and comply with applicable laws, rules, regulations, and Hays County Elections policies.
Coordinates and creates supply kits for voting locations including processing documentation for early voting and election day locations.
Provides and creates trainings to field and election staff on troubleshooting voting equipment and proper use of equipment.
Oversees the recruiting, training, and supervision of temporary/seasonal election field technicians and warehouse clerks.
Serves as a primary contact for the election Judge’s hotline and assists with complex issues from elections judges and staff.
Serves as a record management liaison for Elections Department and other department personnel.
Performs quality control on all forms and documents to ensure compliance from the Secretary of State office is followed.
Oversees and supervises all inventory operations including the maintenance and inspections of the department equipment and supplies.
Manages database for inventory control and supplies including ticket tracking system and related department software.
Performs and creates quality control measures and directs and develops various safety and maintenance techniques and programs to reduce risk and cost.
Develops and maintains operational routines and procedures for equipment, including organizing, storing, and arranging inventory for daily use.
Coordinates and schedules, routine, and emergency maintenance on Election’s vehicles to support the daily operations of the department. 
Works in collaboration with other department staff to recruit ballot board members, public testers and other temporary/seasonal workers, as necessary.
Collaborates with election parties, elected officials and state entities on staffing concerns including confirming election participation parameters.
Conducts analysis to ensure polling locations are American Disability Act (ADA) compliant
Maintains and update poll worker databases and management systems.
Serves as primary contact for recruitment questions from the public, and internal and external entities.
Creates and maintains polling locations contact sheets.
Collaborates with the Equipment Data Coordinators to schedule logistical and equipment deliveries.
Coordinates and reserves various polling locations for early voting and election day.
Conducts analysis and research to determine the number of polling locations needed to accommodate election participation.
Collaborates with leadership on determining election equipment, and furniture needs for polling locations.
Prepares and tracks various financial documents associated with reservations, recruitment, and equipment costs.
Develops marketing and communication materials for polling locations.
Oversees and conducts poll worker recruiting events and serves as liaison for recruiting and payroll concerns.
Serves as a primary contact for the election Judge’s hotline and assists with complex issues from elections judges and staff.
Cross-trains with office staff in other areas to ensure continuity of departmental operations.
Monitors multiple departmental email accounts relating to elections operations .
Attends all meetings and trainings, as required.
Performs special duties as assigned.
                        

Bachelor’s degree in a related field.
Two (2) years of supervisory experience.
One (1) years of warehouse management experience in a government capacity.
Registered Elections Official (REO) Certification within two (2) years of employment. 
Certified Elections/Registration Administrator Certification (CERA) within five (5) years of employment.

Class C Driver’s License.
Ability to maintain continuing education requirements for the State of Texas.

We offer a complete benefits package to full-time employees including health care, dental, vision, retirement, deferred compensation plans, flexible spending accounts, life insurance, long-term disability, holidays, vacation, and sick leave.Part-time employees who work less than 30 hours per week over the course of a year, receive some benefits on a pro-rated basis.To learn more details, visit our benefits page.