=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Services Technician
Salary: $52,525.68 - $63,845.28 YEAR
Location: Contra Costa County, CA
Employer: County of Contra Costa
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2021-08-23
Job Type: Permanent Full-Time
Job Number: EBTA-2021A
Department: Clerk - Recorder
Division: Elections
Opening Date: 08/23/2021
Closing Date: 9/5/2021 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Non-Exempt
Bargaining Unit: 3R

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Why join the Contra Costa County, Clerk-Recorder's Office?
Are you an innovator and high achiever? Service driven? Dedicated to quality?

The Contra Costa County Clerk-Recorder’s Office, Elections Division is currently recruiting for two (2) Voters Services Technicians and one (1) Candidate Services Technician.

The Elections Services Technician position will be assigned to one of the functional sections of the Elections Division as described below:

As a Voter Services Technician, you will:
Conduct daily processing of voter information in database systems
Perform vote by mail functions including processing voter requests for ballots and signature verification of returned ballots
Examine petitions and conducts signature verification of petitions
Review voter eligibility and assists in processing provisional ballots
Provide phone, in-person, and email customer services
As a Candidate Services Technician, you will:
Process candidate and measure filings
Perform campaign finance reporting functions in a database system
Assist or leads County Voter Information Guide development including formatting text in InDesign, coordinating translations of text, and proofreading materials
Provide phone, in-person, and email customer services
As a Precinct/Mapping Services Technician, you will:
Maintain spatial and tabular data in ArcGIS and a voter database
Perform queries and analyze spatial and tabular data
Maintain, update, and proof spatial data, internal street guide, district boundaries, precincts, and other data
Prepare and provide map and data customer orders
Provide phone, in-person, and email customer services
As an Election Day Operations Technician, you will:
Coordinate planning processes related to the Election Day voting experience including supplies, staffing, and procedures
Lead the recruitment, placement, and management of poll workers and other volunteer workers
Lead volunteer tasks including vote by mail ballot extraction
Oversee and communicate with poll workers and volunteers via phone, email, and in-person including
drafting correspondences and replying to questions
Maintain poll worker and volunteer records in an online database
As a Warehouse Operations Technician, you will:
Monitor and maintain item inventory using an electronic inventory management system
Oversee the packing of election supplies and equipment
Lead the returned vote by mail ballot scanning and sorting process
Lead the coordination and collection of vote by mail ballots from secure drop boxes and USPS
As an IT and Voting System Operations Technician, you will:
Lead programming, testing, and maintenance of voting and tabulation equipment
Lead ballot layout and ballot tabulation functions
Lead election results reporting and canvass processes
Update the Elections Division website, as directed
Contra Costa County is one of the state and nation’s largest counties and currently has more than 700,000 registered voters and a population of 1.1 million. Located in the San Francisco Bay Area, Contra Costa County offers great salary and benefits in addition to a collaborative and fast-paced work environment. If you have previous experience that includes tremendous overtime during an election, be prepared for a new experience.

We are looking for someone who is:
A collaborator. - You will contribute to work within your team and across units to ensure the division’s work is completed on time.
A planner and organizer. - You will need to complete assignments and tasks according to established plans and timelines.
Committed to continuous improvement. - You will contribute to advancing the work of your unit and the elections team by reviewing processes and identifying opportunities to improve.
A problem solver. - You will need to own issues that are raised and follow through to ensure that they are resolved satisfactorily.
Committed to public service. – You will demonstrate your commitment through performing services in the public interest.
Adaptable. - You will need to shift between tasks and assignments as directed to ensure team priorities are completed.
Interested in elections administration. - You will be working at the heart of local democracy, serving voters and/or candidates for public office.
What you will typically be responsible for:
Assisting the public with election issues, such as with election laws and regulations
Maintaining elections data in electronic database systems
Guiding and leading temporary elections staff
Quality checking elections information, voting equipment, and supplies for accuracy
Leading election projects and tasks to meet planning and mandated deadlines
A few reasons you might love this job:
You will serve your community through public service.
You will have the opportunity to work in a collaborative team environment.
You will have a chance to be a part of democracy in action.
You will be part of a highly respected elections team.
You will develop a competency and understanding of multiple election functions.
A few challenges you might face in this job:
Legislation and regulations regularly change; therefore, processes and procedures need to be regularly updated.
During peak election times, the number of temporary team members requiring direction, training, and feedback increases significantly.
Teamwork expectations require supporting the work of other elections functions.
Some schedule flexibility required during peak election times.

Competencies Required:
Delivering Results: Meeting organizational goals and customer expectations and making decisions that produce high-quality results by applying technical knowledge, analyzing problems, and calculating risks
Fact Finding: Obtaining facts and data pertaining to an issue or question
Critical Thinking: Analytically and logically evaluating information, propositions, and claims
Action & Results Focused (Taking Initiative): Initiating tasks and focusing on accomplishment
Adaptability: Responding positively to change and modifying behavior as the situation requires
Attention to Detail: Focusing on the details of work content, work steps, and final work products
Learning Agility: Seeking learning opportunities and applying the lessons to one’s work
Informing: Proactively obtaining and sharing information
Customer Focus: Attending to the needs and expectations of customers
Teamwork: Collaborating with others to achieve shared goals
To read the complete job description, please click here.


The eligible list established from this recruitment may remain in effect for six (6) months.

License Required:
Candidates must possess a valid California Motor Vehicle Operator’s License.  Out of State Valid Motor Vehicle Operator’s License will be accepted during the application process.
 
Education:
Possession of a high school diploma, G.E.D. equivalency or high school proficiency certificate.
 
Experience:
Three (3) months of full-time, or its equivalent, experience in a public elections office performing activities to prepare for and conduct state and/or local elections OR Two (2) years of full-time, or its equivalent, clerical or office support experience.

Desirable Qualifications:


Experience in the field of voting and elections
Fluency in Spanish or Chinese
Experience in InDesign (Candidate Services)



Application Filing: All applicants must apply online at https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/contracosta and submit the information as indicated on the job announcement by the final filing date.
Application Evaluation: Depending on the number of applications received, an Application Evaluation Board may be convened to evaluate and select the best-qualified candidates for invitation to the next phase of the examination.
Online Written Exam: (Weighted 100%) An online, multiple-choice assessment will be administered to all accepted candidates. This assessment will measure the following competencies:
Attention to Detail
Adaptability
Critical Thinking
Teamwork
Final Selection Interviews: Scheduled for week of October 4th.
Tentative Recruitment Timeline
Online Written Exam: Week of September 13th
Departmental Interviews: Week of October 4th


The Human Resources Department may change the examination steps noted above in accordance with the Personnel Management Regulations and accepted selection practices.

CONVICTION HISTORY
After you receive a conditional job offer, you will be fingerprinted, and your fingerprints will be sent to the California Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). The resulting report of your conviction history (if any) will be used to determine whether the nature of your conviction conflicts with the specific duties and responsibilities of the job for which you have received a conditional job offer. If a conflict exists, you will be asked to present any evidence of rehabilitation that may mitigate the conflict, except when federal or state regulations bar employment in specific circumstances. Having a conviction history does not automatically preclude you from a job with Contra Costa County. If you accept a conditional job offer, the Human Resources department will contact you to schedule a fingerprinting appointment.
  
DISASTER SERVICE WORKER
All Contra Costa County employees are designated Disaster Service Workers through state and local law. Employment with the County requires the affirmation of a loyalty oath to this effect. Employees are required to complete all Disaster Service Worker-related training as assigned, and to return to work as ordered in the event of an emergency. 

EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
 It is the policy of Contra Costa County to consider all applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, ethnicity, age, disability, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity, gender expression, marital status, ancestry, medical condition, genetic information, military or veteran status, or other protected category under the law.

To find more information on Benefits offered by Contra Costa County, please go to https://www.contracosta.ca.gov/1343/Employee-Benefits


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Do you currently possess a high school diploma, G.E.D. equivalency or high school proficiency certificate?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Please select the option that best represents your work experience:
        
        
                Three (3) months of full-time, or its equivalent, experience in a public elections office performing activities to prepare for and conduct state and/or local elections.
                Two (2) years of full-time, or its equivalent, clerical or office support experience.
                None of the above.
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        For the option you selected above (question #2), please describe your public elections or clerical/office support experience.  Include in your response, your years of experience, your role, and scope of responsibilities.
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        