ELECTION DIRECTOR II
Recruitment #19-001496-0001
| Department | SBE General Administration |
|---|---|
| Date Opened | 2/1/2019 11:30:00 AM |
| Filing Deadline | 2/15/2019 11:59:00 PM |
| Salary | $61,754.00 - $105,818.00/year |
| Employment Type |
Full-Time
|
| HR Analyst | Christina Lohr |
| Work Location |
Harford
|
GRADE
16
LOCATION OF POSITION
Harford County Board of Elections
133 Industry Lane
Forest Hill, MD 21050
Main Purpose of Job
An Election Director II is the supervisory or managerial level of work directing elections in local jurisdictions within the State. The work of this classification may require travel throughout the State to exchange information regarding the election process and promote voter registration. Employees supervise office support staff which may include subordinate supervisors. Employees in this classification receive managerial supervision from the State Administrator or Deputy State Administrator of Election Laws. Employees may be required to work evenings and weekends. Position allocation to the Election Director series is determined by the size of the local jurisdiction as reflected by the number of registered voters. Copies of this supplemental job evaluation standard can be found in the Offices of the State and local Boards of Elections and in the Department of Budget and Management Office of Personnel Services and Benefits.
The Election Director I-III is differentiated from the Election Deputy Director I-III in that the Election Director I-III is responsible for the entire operations of local election board offices and the conduct of elections for those offices while the Election Deputy Director I-III assist the Election Director I-III in the office operations and the conduct of elections for local election board offices and has the authority to act in the absence of the Election Director.
POSITION DUTIES
Directs the conduct of elections in compliance with federal, State and local laws, regulations and statutes;
Conducts elections in compliance with federal, State and local laws, regulations and statutes;
Oversees and coordinates the day-to-day operations of a local election office to include voter registration program, absentee balloting program, provisional ballot program, Same Day Registration, redistricting precinct boundary program, candidate filing, ballot preparation, voting machine purchase, maintenance and site delivery, acquisition of polling places and early voting sites, and the recruitment and training of election judges;
Â Supervises, directly or through subordinate supervisors, election office staff, temporary office associates, election judges, per diem staff to conduct canvasses and nursing home and assisted-living facilities absentee and voter registration programs;
Prepares and administers the annual budget for the local election office;Â
Reviews proposed federal, State and local legislation to determine the impact upon the conduct of elections;
Analyzes census data and existing congressional, legislative and councilmanic districts and recommends new precinct boundaries;
Implements approved precinct boundaries to include developing maps and street directories, acquisition of polling places, and notification of voters;
Secures and coordinates services provided by local jurisdictions such as employment of temporary staff, printing and publications, lease of polling places, payroll functions, data processing support and telecommunications;
Prepares operational and statistical reports and records;
Â Oversees and conducts monthly audits, post-election audits, manual audits and recounts; Implements new voting systems and other processes, such as Same Day Registration, as required by the Maryland General Assembly;
Conducts risk assessments and creates operation plans for Election Days, Early Voting and the daily operations of the election office; Prepare contingency plans, power management plans and disaster recovery plans for daily operations, Election Days and Early Voting;
Â Manages security systems and coordinates with security services to effectively follow all cybersecurity and physical security rules;
Attends and is present for all Early Voting and Election Day activities including the opening and closing of the centers;
May coordinate voter registration activities for local municipalities in accordance with the Universal Registration Code of State election laws;
Performs other related duties.Â Â Â Â
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS
Education:Â A Bachelorâs degree from an accredited college or university.
Experience:Â Four years of experience applying federal, State, and local election laws and regulations applicable to conducting elections,Â which must have included at least one presidential or gubernatorialÂ election and four years of supervisory or management experience. Â
Notes:
1. Candidates may substitute four years of election experience for the required education.
2. Candidates may substitute five years of supervisory experience or project management experience for the required experience.
DESIRED OR PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS
Preference will be given to applicantsÂ who possess the following preferred qualification(s).Â Include clear and specific information on your application regardingÂ your qualifications.
1. Experience supervising staff.
2. Experience training adults in a classroom setting.
3. Experience preparing and administering a budget for an office or cooperation.
4. Experience conducting meetings and making presentations to large diverse audiences.
5. Experience maintaining and tracking data and data analysis.
LIMITATIONS ON SELECTION
Limited to those willing to accept employment in Harford County Maryland.
LICENSES, REGISTRATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS
Employees in this classification may be assigned duties which require travel.
Employees assigned such duties may be required to possess a motor vehicle operatorâs license valid in the State of Maryland.
SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS
1. Employees in this classification are required to be registered voters in the State of Maryland in accordance with the Election Law Article, Section 2-207 (d), Annotated Code of Maryland.
2. Employees in this classification may not hold or be a candidate for any elective public or political party office or any other office created under the Constitution or laws of this State in accordance with the Election Law Article, Section 2-301(b).
SELECTION PROCESS
Applicants must meet all minimum qualifications to be considered, and to appear on the list of people eligible for hire. Please read all requirements before applying. Â Please make sure that you provide sufficient information on your application to show that you meet the qualifications for this recruitment. All information concerning your qualifications must be submitted by the closing date.Â
We will not consider information submitted after this date.Â
Successful candidates will be ranked as Best Qualified, Better Qualified, or Qualified and placed on theÂ eligible (employment) list for at least one year.
BENEFITS
FURTHER INSTRUCTIONS
The online application process is STRONGLY preferred. If you are unable to apply online, you may mail a paper application and supplemental questionnaire to:Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â
Maryland State Board of Elections
Attn: HR/Recruitment
151 West St. Suite 200
Annapolis MD 21401
For questions regarding this recruitment, please contact the SBE Recruitment and Selection Division, at 410-269-2859. People with disabilities and bilingual candidates are encouraged to apply. We thank our Veterans for their service to our country.
If you are having difficulty with your user account or have general questions about the online application system, please contact the MD Department of Budget and Management, Recruitment and Examination Division, at 410-767-4850 or Application.Help@maryland.gov.
If additional information is required, the preferred method is to upload. If you are unable to upload, please fax the requested information to, 410-974-5126. Only additional materials that are required will be accepted for this recruitment.
All additional information must be received by the closing date and time.
Resumes will not be accepted in lieu of a completed application.
Appropriate accommodations for individuals with disabilities are available upon request by calling: 410-269-2866 or MD TTY Relay Service, at 1-800-735-2258.
As an equal opportunity employer, Maryland is committed to recruiting, retaining and promoting employees who are reflective of the Stateâs diversity.