=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Director of Elections
Salary: $62,274.11 - $75,000.00 YEAR
Location: 807 S Walker St. Burgaw NC 28425, NC, 28425
Employer: Pender County Government
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2023-03-07
Job Type: Full-Time Permanent
Job Number: 2022--00685
Department: BOARD OF ELECTIONS
Opening Date: 03/08/2023
Closing Date: 3/21/2023 11:59 PM Eastern

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Performs difficult administrative work planning, directing, coordinating and supervising the elections process staff, registering voters, conducting elections, preparing and maintaining records and files, preparing reports, and related work as apparent or assigned. Work is performed under the general direction of the Board of Elections. Departmental supervision is exercised over all personnel within the department. Assist with other duties as needed or assigned.  




To perform this job successfully, an individual must be able to perform each essential function satisfactorily. The requirements listed below are representative of the knowledge, skill and/or ability required. Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable individual with disabilities to perform the essential functions. 

Prepares, directs and conducts federal, state, county, municipal, district and special elections ensuring adherence to and compliance with North Carolina General Statutes and other related laws, rules, regulations and procedures. 

Directs and maintains permanent voter registration records and related databases. 

Receives registration applications and changes of information; processes removals; sends required mailings such as verifications and confirmations. 

Supervises the distribution of public information. 

Oversees and maintains required statistical data. 

Plans, coordinates and participates in annual statewide voter registration drives. 

Composes ballot layout for Board approval; programs and codes election software for all voting equipment; prints ballots as needed; tests and qualifies each voting terminal prior to election; supervises the storage, maintenance and delivery of voting equipment. 

Divides and/or alters precincts upon authority of the Board; prepares legal descriptions and notices. 

Prepares and receives notices of candidacy and related campaign finance reports; supplies candidates with materials and training required to comply with finance laws; sends timely notification to candidates of reporting deadlines; notifies state of delinquent filers. 

Directs, prepares, mails and maintains absentee voting records and materials in compliance with the law. 

Investigates and assists the Board with determining the eligibility of provisional ballots cast. 

Maintains, researches, organizes and updates all geographical addressing records related to voter registration records and coordinates the same within in the statewide database. 

Updates and maintains all jurisdictional boundary information relating to voter records and data. 

Prepares and applies for federal and state grants when available. 

Prepares annual department operating budget, monitors expenditures. 

Comprehensive knowledge of federal, state and local citizenship and voting registration laws and regulations; comprehensive knowledge of registration and voting procedures and of the maintenance and protection of voting registration lists and records; thorough knowledge of standard office practices, procedures and equipment; general knowledge of and ability to operate personal computers, associated hardware, software and peripheral equipment; ability to solve problems within scope of responsibility; ability to plan, train and supervise the work of others; ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships with the Board of Elections, County officials, associates and the general public. 
 
Associates/Technical degree with coursework in business administration, or related field and considerable experience in administration and/or office management, or equivalent combination of education and experience. 




Three years of previous election experience is required.
 

Possession of or ability to acquire Notary Public license within six months of hire. 
 
State certified Elections Administrator program within three years of hire. 
 
Valid driver's license in the State of North Carolina. 

This work requires the occasional exertion of up to 25 pounds of force; work regularly requires speaking or hearing and using hands to finger, handle or feel, frequently requires sitting, reaching with hands and arms and repetitive motions and occasionally requires standing, walking, stooping, kneeling, crouching or crawling, pushing or pulling and lifting; work has standard vision requirements; vocal communication is required for expressing or exchanging ideas by means of the spoken word; hearing is required to perceive information at normal spoken word levels; work requires preparing and analyzing written or computer data, visual inspection involving small defects and/or small parts, using of measuring devices, operating machines and observing general surroundings and activities; work has no exposure to environmental conditions; work is generally in a moderately noisy location (e.g. business office, light traffic). 

There are a wide variety of benefits available to eligible Pender County employees. These benefits include: health, dental, vision, life insurance, optional life and disability insurance plans, flexible spending account, retirement program, 401(k) program, deferred compensation program, credit union membership and an employee assistance program.Click here to explore what Pender County has to offer!Pender County Benefits Overview can be viewed here (Download PDF reader). 