ELECTION DEPUTY DIRECTOR I
Recruitment #22-001489-0003
| Department | SBE General Administration |
|---|---|
| Date Opened | 9/27/2022 2:35:00 PM |
| Filing Deadline | 10/11/2022 11:59:00 PM |
| Salary | $49,811.00 - $88,315.00/year |
| Employment Type |
Full-Time
|
| HR Analyst | Shermaine Malcolm |
| Work Location |
Cecil
|
GRADE
LOCATION OF POSITION
Main Purpose of Job
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS
Experience: EightÂ years of experienceÂ applying federal, state, and local election laws and regulations applicable to conducting elections, which must have included at least one presidential or gubernatorial election, andÂ an additionalÂ fourÂ years of supervisory or management experience.
Notes:
1.Â Candidates may substitute the possession of a Bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university andÂ five years of supervisory experience or project management experience for the required experience.
2. Candidates may substituteÂ the possession of a Bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university for four of the eight years of required experienceÂ applying federal, state, and local election laws and regulations applicable to conducting elections, which must have included at least one presidential or gubernatorial election.Â Â
DESIRED OR PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS
Preference will be given to applicantsÂ who possess the following preferred qualification(s).Â Include clear and specific information on your application regardingÂ your qualifications.
1. Experience conducting an election in compliance with federal, state, and local laws.
2. Experience supervising election staff.
3. Experience training election workers.
4. Experience developing, preparing, presenting, and administering a financial budget.
5Â· Experience completing performance evaluations.
6Â· Experience communicating with staff, stakeholders, and the public in meetings and via online platforms.
LICENSES, REGISTRATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS
SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS
1. Employees in this classification are required to be registered voters in the State of Maryland in accordance with the Election Law Article, 2-207(d), Annotated Code of Maryland.
2. Employees in this classification may not hold or be a candidate for any elective public or political party office or any other office created under the Constitution or laws of this State in accordance with the Election Law Article, Section 2-301(b).
SELECTION PROCESS
Please make sure that you provide sufficient information on your application to show that you meet the qualifications for this recruitment. All information concerning your qualifications must be submitted by the closing date.Â We will not consider information submitted after this date.Â Successful candidates will be ranked as Best Qualified, Better Qualified, or Qualified and placed on theÂ eligible (employment) list for at least one year.
EXAMINATION PROCESS
The assessment may consist of a rating of your education, training, and experience related to the requirements of the position.Â It is important that you provide complete and accurate information on your application.Â Please report all experience and education that is related to this position.
BENEFITS
FURTHER INSTRUCTIONS
Online applications are highly recommended. However, if you
are unable to apply online, the paper application (and supplemental
questionnaire) may be submitted to SBE's HR Division at 151 W. St., Suite 200,
Annapolis, MD 21401. Resumes will not be accepted in lieu of completing the
online or paper application. Paper application materials must be received by 5
pm, close of business, on the closing date for the recruitment.Â No postmarks
will be accepted. If additional information is required, the preferred method
is to upload.Â If you are unable to
upload, please email the requested information to Chris Lohr at
Chris.Lohr@maryland.gov.Â Only additional
materials that are required will be accepted for this recruitment.Â
For questions regarding this recruitment, please contact 410-269-2840.
Appropriate accommodations for individuals with disabilities
are available upon request by calling MD TTY Relay Service 1-800-735-2258.
We thank our Veterans for their service to our country.
People with disabilities and bilingual candidates are
encouraged to apply.
As an equal opportunity employer, Maryland is committed to
recruitment, retaining and promoting employees who are reflective of the
State's diversity.