=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Coordinator
Salary: $53,101.00 - $67,705.00 YEAR
Location: Pittsboro, NC, NC, 27312
Employer: Chatham, County of (NC)
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2025-07-09
Job Type: Full-Time
Job Number: 2024-00263
Department: Elections
Opening Date: 07/10/2025
Closing Date: 7/25/2025 11:59 PM Eastern
FLSA: Non-Exempt

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

WELCOME TO CHATHAM COUNTY'S APPLICATION PROCESS. 

To Apply: Become a part of the best local government in North Carolina click "Apply" in the top right corner.

All sections of the application, including work experience, MUST be completed. Please include the last ten (10) years of employment history. Incomplete applications may be rejected.  Applications are stored on a secure site accessible only by authorized personnel. Your application can be saved and used to apply for more than one (1) job opening.

Chatham County is an equal opportunity employer and will consider reasonable accommodations as required by law. Chatham County participates in E-Verify and will provide the federal government with your Form I-9 information to confirm that you are authorized to work in the U.S.

Chatham County does not offer sponsorship of job applicants for employment-based visas or any other work authorization for our positions at this time.

*Please Note: After submitting your application:

Log into your GovernmentJobs account daily. You will receive emails and notices from hiring managers asking you to complete tasks. You do not want to miss these.
The references you provided will be asked to complete a form. This does NOT mean you will be interviewed. It is an automated process in NeoGov.
We recommend you sign up for text message alerts when you create your account.

If you have issues with submitting your application, please contact Neogov Applicant Support at 1-855-524-5627. 

Return to the Chatham County Homepage. 
 

Are you passionate about civic participation and making elections run smoothly and effectively? We're looking for a motivated, detail-oriented Elections Coordinator to take the lead in training programs, poll worker engagement, outreach, and election logistics for our growing, forward-thinking county. 

If you're excited about creating meaningful voter experiences and playing a vital role in local democracy, we’d love to have you on our team. Apply now and help us shape the future of civic engagement!

Why Work With Us?

Competitive pay and amazing benefits 

A passionate team that loves collaboration

Generous leave policies and a culture that respects your time

Supportive leadership

An opportunity to make a real impact in the community 

 

Performs complex, skilled administrative support and administrative work, responsible for coordinating comprehensive training programs, overseeing poll worker engagement, managing outreach efforts, and supporting election logistics. This position ensures operational excellence in the administration of elections and promotes civic participation through effective communication and community involvement. Work is performed under the general supervision of the Elections Director.

Develops and conducts training programs for all categories of election workers, including Election Day workers, early voting officials, computer training, Provisional teams, Multipartisan Assistance Teams (MAT), absentee teams, and printer technicians;
Designs and develops training programs for election officials;
Updates methods, procedures, and workflow;
Conducts training needs assessments to enhance developed training programs;
Develops training curriculum and maintains training modules;
Develops, designs, and maintains all election official instructional materials;
Designs, maintains, and implements E-Learning solutions for official election training;
Tracks the completion of required training and assists election officials during the process; 
Researches new and innovative ways to make election training portable, electronic, and verifiable;
Acquires and sets up adequate locations for in-person training;
Manages and maintains in-house training facilities and equipment; 
Maintains the election official resources website;
Maintains regular communication with election workers throughout the year, including drafting and distributing an election worker newsletter;
Recruits student assistants and provides relevant training and support;
Leads voter outreach initiatives, including building relationships with schools, civic groups, and other community partners to increase awareness and participation;
Coordinates public education efforts and promotes opportunities to work in elections;
Manages election supply inventory and maintains order within supply cages;
Oversees the cage delivery and return schedule in coordination with election site needs;
Assists with the logistics planning for equipment and supply distribution during each election cycle;
Conducts daily audits during early voting to ensure accuracy and compliance with election procedures;
Assists Elections Deputy Director with maintaining quality control of absentee ballots, candidate campaign reports, and State Election Information Management System (SEIMS);
Audits voting records, reports, recounts, and return of election materials;
Audits the enforcement and application process of State Campaign Finance Laws and addresses discrepancies in calculations and reporting methods with campaign committee treasurers for resolution;
Answers incoming calls, assists walk-in customers, and responds to voter inquiries;
Assists the Election Voting Equipment Technician with reviewing website and publications and coordinates website updates with the Elections Deputy Director;
Covers the Elections Deputy Director duties as necessary, including assisting with absentee meetings and scheduling Multipartisan assistant teams for the nursing facilities;
Fulfills public records requests on behalf of the department; 
Performs related work as required.

Bachelor’s degree in education, political science, communications, or computer science and two years of training experience in the specialty area or an equivalent combination of education and experience.

Thorough knowledge of federal, state, and municipal election laws;
Thorough knowledge of North Carolina statues and Board of Elections guidelines governing the elections process and of the State Election Information Management System (SEIMS) software.
Comprehensive knowledge of the policies, operations, and procedures of the Elections Office;
Considerable computer and database management skills;
Thorough knowledge and skilled use of Microsoft Office and Adobe Creative Suite.
Ability to interpret and implement ballot layout laws and to execute audits of clerical operations;
Ability to learn new technologies quickly with minimal guidance;
Ability to coordinate with other staff and election officials
Ability to communicate ideas clearly and concisely, both orally and in writing;
Ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships with the Board of Elections, elected officials, media, associates, and the general public. 

Physical Requirements
This work can require the exertion of up to 50 pounds of force; work regularly requires sitting and repetitive motions, frequently requires speaking or hearing and use of hands and fingers, handle or feel and occasionally requires standing, walking, climbing or balancing, stooping, kneeling, crouching or crawling, reaching with hands and arms, pushing or pulling and lifting; work has standard vision requirements; vocal communication is required for expressing or exchanging ideas by means of the spoken word; hearing is required to perceive information at normal spoken word levels; work requires preparing and analyzing written or computer data, operating machines 
and observing general surroundings and activities; work occasionally requires exposure to outdoor weather conditions; work is generally in a moderately noisy location (e.g. business office, light traffic).

Special Requirements
Must possess or obtain Certification as a North Carolina Elections Administrator within three years of employment.

Must possess or obtain North Carolina Notary Public within one year of employment. 

Must possess a valid North Carolina driver's license.

Chatham County is fully committed to equal employment opportunity (EEO) principles and issues this anti-discrimination/EEO compliance clause to support and maintain employee’s rights and responsibilities relating to equal employment. The core of equal employment opportunity is the right to work and advance on the basis of merit, ability, and potential, free from prejudice or discrimination. In accordance with the applicable anti-discrimination statutes, executive orders, and other authorities, Chatham County protects employees against discrimination, to the fullest extent of law, on the basis of race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy), national origin, sexual orientation, gender identity, age, disability, genetic information, marital status, political affiliation, whistleblower activity, parental status, and military service (past, present, or future), and against retaliation for participation in EEO activity or opposition to discrimination.

Chatham County has over 600 employees who play an important role in planning, designing, and maintaining government programs while delivering good customer service and maintaining fiscal responsibility. Our employees are our greatest asset, and we place a high value on training, so employees are well-educated and well-trained. Sure, while various career opportunities exist, none are as rewarding as working for Chatham County.We offer a competitive benefits package to full-time employees (working 30+ hours per week) including health care, dental, vision, retirement, 401(k), flexible spending accounts, life insurance, long-term disability, holidays, and paid leave.To learn more details, visit the benefits page on our website.