Elections Manager
Recruitment #0725-RO4725-01
| Approximate Salary | $8,294.46 - $10,081.96/month (includes the 3% COLA effective 7/14/2025) |
|---|---|
| Opening Date | 7/7/2025 08:00:00 AM |
| Closing Date | 7/25/2025 11:59:00 PM |
| Employment Type |
Full-Time
|
| Analyst | Lisa Nebe |
Introduction
The San Joaquin County Registrar of Voters Office is seeking an experienced elections professional to manage and supervise the day-to-day operations of the office. This recruitment is to fill one vacancy in the Registrar of Voters Office and to establish an eligible list which may be used to fill future vacancies.Â
For additional information on this position, please see the attached recruitment brochure:Â
Pre-Employment Background:Â Potential new hires into this classification are required to successfully pass a pre-employment background investigation as a condition of employment. Final appointment cannot be made unless the eligible has successfully completed the background process.
Resumes will not be accepted in lieu of an application. A completed application must be postmarked or received online by the final filing deadline.NOTE: All correspondences relating to this recruitment will be delivered via e-mail. The e-mail account used will be the one provided on your employment application during time of submittal. Please be sure to check your e-mail often for updates. If you do not have an e-mail account on file, Human Resources will send you correspondences via US Mail.
Â
Equal Opportunity Employer
San Joaquin County is an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Employer and is committed to providing equal employment to all without regard to age, ancestry, color, creed, marital status, medical condition, national origin, physical or mental disability, political affiliation or belief, pregnancy, race, religion, sex, or sexual orientation.Â For more information go to Equal Employment Opportunity Division (sjgov.org).
Accommodations for those covered by the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA):
San Joaquin County complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act and, upon request, will consider reasonable accommodations to enable individuals with disabilities to perform essential job functions.
HOW TO APPLY
Apply Online:Â Â Â Â Â Â Â
www.sjgov.org/department/hr
By mail or in person:Â Â
San Joaquin County Human Resources
44 N. San Joaquin Street Suite 330
Stockton, CA 95202Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â
Â
Office hours:Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â
Monday â Friday 8:00 am to 5:00 pm; excluding holidays.
Phone:Â (209) 468-3370Â
Â
Job Line:
For currentÂ employment opportunitiesÂ please callÂ our 24-hour job line at (209) 468-3377.Â
When a final filing date is indicated, applications must be filed with the Human Resources Division before 5:00 p.m. or postmarked by the final filing date. Resumes will not be accepted in lieu of an application. Applications sent through county inter-office mail, which are not received by the final filing date, will not be accepted. (The County assumes no responsibility for mailed applications which are not received by the Human Resources Division). Â
San Joaquin County Substance Abuse Policy: San Joaquin County has adopted a Substance Abuse Policy in compliance with the Federal Drug Free Workplace Act of 1988. This policy is enforced by all San Joaquin County Departments and applies to all San Joaquin County employees.
Equal Opportunity Employer:Â San Joaquin County is an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Employer and is committed to providing equal employment to all without regard to age, ancestry, color, creed, marital status, medical condition, national origin, physical or mental disability, political affiliation or belief, pregnancy, race, religion, sex, or sexual orientation.Â For more information go to www.sjgov.org/department/hr/eeo.