Our Mission in Motion
AJSOCAL is the leading civil rights advocate for the Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) community. Our services are open to individuals of all races and ethnicities, without restriction. We combat discrimination, provide free legal services and workshops across Southern California for low-income community members and anyone in need, and drive policy change from the local to national level. Rooted in the legacy of our immigrant forebears and fueled by modern advocacy, we remain steadfast in our pursuit of justice.
After decades of unwavering advocacy, our journey speaks volumes.
Dive deeper into our mission and witness the difference we make.
Watch our three pivotal videos on Anti-Asian Discrimination, Citizenship client case story, and our tireless Advocacy efforts.
Let their stories inspire, educate, and motivate you.
The Latest
EMPOWERED hosted by Meg Ryan
Learn a bit more about AJSOCAL and anti-Asian discrimination with this short-form documentary, EMPOWERED hosted by Meg Ryan. Throughout the year, this will air on major networks as well as public television.
AJSOCAL Blog/Annoucement
AJSOCAL Celebrates Grand Opening of New OC Headquarters and Community Space
On Tuesday, December 2, 2025, Asian Americans Advancing Justice Southern California (AJSOCAL) celebrated the Grand Opening of its new Orange County Headquarters and Community Space in Anaheim. More than 200 community leaders, partners, elected officials, and supporters joined the milestone event, marking a major expansion of AJSOCAL’s services and presence in the region.
AFFILIATION STATEMENT
Asian Americans Advancing Justice Affiliation Condemns Discriminatory Travel Ban Targeting Immigrant Families
Asian Americans Advancing Justice, a national affiliation of four independent Asian American civil rights organizations, strongly condemns the Trump administration’s expanded travel ban, which now targets immigrants and people of color from 39 countries and those traveling on Palestinian Authority-issued travel documents, under the false pretense of national security.
Featured News
Blog
Read critical pieces, get the latest updates on local rallies and events centered on Asian civil rights, and view staff statements on current issues.
In The News
View the latest news about Asian Americans Advancing Justice Southern California today.
Announcements
Stay informed about Asian Americans Advancing Justice Southern California’s work and our positions on recent civil rights and social justice issues.
Events & Workshops
Citizenship Clinics
Every Tuesday and Thursday
In partnership with local community organizations, Asian Americans Advancing Justice Southern California hosts free citizenship application workshops where our staff and volunteers help verify eligibility for citizenship, complete the citizenship application, and prepare a fee waiver request for individuals who qualify.
An appointment is required prior to attending our Citizenship Clinics. To make an appointment, please call our language hotlines.
Domestic Violence & Family Law Clinics
Every Thursday
The Survivor and Family Empowerment (”SAFE”) Project at AJSOCAL assists low-income and limited-English-speaking survivors of domestic violence with family law and immigration services, including helping them obtain restraining orders, child custody, and support orders and to achieve legal status without the help of their abuser.
An appointment is required prior to attending our Domestic Violence & Family Law Clinics. To make an appointment, please call our language hotlines.
BYSTANDER INTERVENTION TRAININGS
In these virtual workshops hosted on Zoom and co-sponsored by Asian Americans Advancing Justice Southern California and Right To Be (formerly known as Hollaback!), you’ll learn how you can intervene effectively as a bystander without ever compromising your safety.
Follow Us
ENGLISH SOCIAL MEDIA