Virtually everything Arizona state employees do affects the quality of life for our residents and guests. As a State of Arizona employee, you can choose from more than 1,700 types of career opportunities, all with the same employer, making job mobility and career advancement easy. With so many diverse roles, you can see why our employees join state service and never want to leave.
Note: Postsecondary education includes non-degree programs that lead to certificates and diplomas plus six degree levels: associate, bachelor, first professional, master, advanced intermediate, and research doctorate. Click here for more information.
As of November 12, 2020, all accounts previously created on the azstatejobs.gov website were deleted. You will need to apply to a job in order to establish a new profile and upload new documents.
You can sign up for job alerts, set your communication preferences (including unsubscribing), and view recommended jobs on your Candidate Settings page. Click the button below to access your Candidate Settings page.
ARIZONA MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (AMS)
All Arizona state employees operate within the Arizona Management System (AMS), an intentional, results-driven approach for doing the work of state government whereby every employee reflects on performance, reduces waste, and commits to continuous improvement with sustainable progress. Through AMS, every state employee seeks to understand customer needs, identify problems, improve processes, and measure results.
State employees are highly engaged, collaborative and embrace a culture of public service.
The State of Arizona is an Equal Opportunity/Reasonable Accommodation Employer.
If this position requires driving or the use of a vehicle as an essential function of the job to conduct State business, then the following requirements apply: Driver’s License Requirements
This website uses cookies.
We use cookies to personalize content such as job recommendations, and to analyze our traffic. You consent to our cookies if you click "I Accept". If you click on "I Do Not Accept", then we will not use cookies but you may have a deteriorated user experience. You can change your settings by clicking on the Settings link on the top right of the device.