=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Manager
Salary: $104,863.92 - $133,780.80 YEAR
Location: OR, OR, OR, 97124
Employer: Washington County, Oregon
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2022-04-02
Job Type: Full Time Regular
Job Number: 21/22-043-A&T
Department: Assessment and Taxation
Opening Date: 04/02/2022
Closing Date: 4/24/2022 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Exempt

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===




Washington County Assessment and Taxation Department (A&T) is seeking to fill our Elections Manager vacancy. A&T is eager and committed to hiring individuals with a variety of language abilities and multi-cultural experiences that reflect the many and diverse communities of Washington County, which will strengthen and bring improvements to the work of the department. As a commitment to your growth and professional development, A&T leadership wholeheartedly encourages and supports the success of all our employees through training, mentoring, and coaching.




The Opportunity

The Elections Manager is responsible for preparing and executing all elections within Washington County, the second largest county in Oregon. The Elections Manager will work with a staff of nine (9) and an annual budget of $3 million to serve approximately 400,000 registered voters. They will provide management and oversight to multiple activities, including overlapping elections; hiring and leading supervisory, professional, technical, and clerical staff; as well as, managing personnel issues such as discipline, staffing and recruitment.  For a complete list of essential duties, knowledge, skills, and abilities, click here.




What we’re looking for:

Experienced & Knowledgeable: You have experience in multiple capacities of elections administration, voter registration, mapping and addressing, redistricting, budgeting, personnel management, contract administration, and information technology planning.  
Collaborative: This dynamic role will give you the opportunity to use your exceptional leadership, management, and communication skills to build relationships with all stakeholders while maintaining absolute objectivity.  
Integrity: You have sound knowledge and judgment related to the principles of government finance, security, accountability and transparency.  

 

As an organization that is highly centered on equity, diversity and inclusion, this position will be effective and creative in how it carries out these responsibilities throughout all facets of A&T’s budget. Washington County has the most diverse population in the state with the highest percentage of Latino/a/x and Asian & Pacific Islander community members. In A&T, we strive to create a workplace that reflects the communities we serve and where everyone feels empowered to bring their full, authentic selves to work. Together, we continue to build an inclusive culture that encourages, supports, and celebrates the diverse voices of our employees. With the help of every employee, our customers, our partners, and our community – we can achieve our mission of equity for all!


Learn more about this exciting opportunity!
All interested individuals are invited to participate in an (optional) informational Q & A session. During this informational session, you will:
Meet our Washington County's Elections team
Hear about a day in the life of the Elections Manager
Learn about the application process

WHEN: Wednesday, April 13, 2022 from 4 - 6 PM

WHERE: Register for this Q&A session by emailing Veronica Garcia at Veronica_Garcia@co.washington.or.us and have a Zoom link sent to you. 

Qualifications

Possession of a Bachelor's Degree in in political science, business or public administration; or a related field providing the required knowledge, skills, and abilities; AND
Five (5) years of work experience in elections, public information/relations, or similar field. At least three (3) years of this experience must be performing in a supervisory role.
*Multi-lingual fluency and/or experience with multi-cultural communities is preferred.

Additional Requirements
Must have the ability to arrange for timely transportation in order to attend appointments and meetings at locations throughout the State of Oregon.
Must pass a criminal background investigation.

Compensation
Annual salary ranges from $100,348.20 to $128,019.96, depending on the qualifications of the successful candidate. Our total compensation package includes more than just your annual salary. Learn more by visiting the Benefits tab! 







Next Steps

Apply today! In-lieu of a resume, you are required to complete and submit an online application, which will be used to screen for minimum qualifications (MQs) and to determine starting pay in accordance with the provision of the Oregon Equal Pay Law. 

MQ Review: Your friendly neighborhood Talent Acquisition Business Partner (recruiter) will screen applications for (MQs) beginning the week after the posting closes - the week of April 25, 2022.

Subject Matter Expert (SME) Review: Depending on the number of applicants that meet MQs, a SME panel may perform an in-depth evaluation of your application materials, including your responses to the supplemental questions. This process will begin the week of May 2, 2022.

Panel Interview(s): Our goal is to schedule panel interviews with candidates that successfully passed the SME Review, as soon as possible.

Conditional Offer of Appointment: Human Resources will conduct a salary analysis for the successful candidate(s) and extend a conditional offer of appointment.

Post-Offer Checks: The successful candidate will undergo a driving record check and criminal background check.

Start Date: A start date will be determined after all conditions of employment have been met.   


Please note, you will receive status updates via email at each step of the process, so don't "opt out" or "unsubscribe" from Government Jobs email notification!





Our Commitment to You

We are committed to using a merit-based system in which recruiting, selecting, and advancing employees is based on their relative knowledge, skills, and abilities. Washington County values a culture of equity, diverse perspectives, and life experiences. Our organization embraces innovation, collaboration and work-life harmony. We offer job stability, a comprehensive benefits package, and an opportunity to serve and support our diverse community. We are an equal opportunity employer with a commitment to diversity and an inclusive workforce. Women, minorities, veterans, and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply. 

Veterans' Preference: If you are a veteran and would like to request veterans' preference points for this recruitment, please review instructions using this link: Veterans' Preference Points (Download PDF reader) (Download PDF reader).
Accommodation under the Americans with Disabilities Act: A reasonable accommodation is available to anyone whose specific disability prevents them from completing this application or participating in the selection process for this recruitment. To obtain confidential assistance, please contact Human Resources at 503-846-8606 or hr@co.washington.or.us at least 48 hours before the step(s) of the selection process for which you feel you need an accommodation.
 
Additional Resources

Questions about this recruitment?  Contact Jasmine Cardenas, Talent Acquisition Business Partner at jasmine_cardenas@co.washington.or.us.

New to GovernmentJobs.com? Visit https://www.governmentjobs.com/home/applicationguide  for a comprehensive, step-by-step guide on the application process. 
Need technical support? Call Government Jobs' Live Application Support at 855-524-5627.

Management, Administrative and Professional Personnel System (MAPPS) - FLSA exempt employees are paid on a salaried basis. The premise of salaried/exempt employment is that established compensation recognizes the time and effort needed to accomplish all assigned job duties. Job responsibilities may require work outside of the employee's standard work week or a work week in excess of 40 hours.For more information on the MAPPS policy, please review the specific document using this link:Click HereThis position is not represented under a collective bargaining agreement.Regular and limited duration full-time employees working 30 hours or more per week and job share employees are eligible for benefits beginning on the first of the month following employment. Job share employees are responsible for 50% of the premium. Part-time regular, variable hour, and temporary positions are not eligible for medical, dental, and vision benefits. Check Out Our Award-Winning Benefits & Wellness Program!   Washington County values your dedication to lead the future of our community through public service. Our total compensation package, which is comprised of more than just your annual salary, was built to show our commitment to the physical and financial health and wellbeing of you and your family. Your total compensation package includes a comprehensive benefits program with medical, dental, and vision coverage at up to 95% employer paid! Other benefits you’ll enjoy as part of your total compensation package include:	Paid Time Off - 11 paid holidays including one floating holiday, 12 vacation days for new employees (accrual rates increase based on length of service), AND up to 96 hours of sick leave per year (unused sick leave accumulates from year to year without limit to provide pay and security if needed).	Wellness Program - Washington County has been named one of Oregon’s Healthiest Employers by the Portland Business Journal for the past 7 years. We are proud to receive this award and will continue to make your health and wellbeing a priority by providing resources and support to help you and your family live and work well. Resources include smoking cessation, weight management, and stress management classes (online or telephonic with a personal health coach); discounts on gym memberships, fitness activities, and sports tickets; and Health & Wellness events and onsite flu shot clinics.	Alternative Care Coverage	Health Care and Dependent Care Flexible Spending Accounts (FSAs)	Employee Assistance Program (EAP)	Life and Disability Insurance (both County-provided and voluntary)	Oregon Public Employees Retirement System (PERS)	457b Deferred Compensation Plan	Emergency Travel Assistance	TriMet Hop Card at no cost to the employee	Bike lockers and repair stations	A charitable giving program	Oregon College Savings PlanTo learn more about our Benefits and Wellness program and view our current benefits guide, plan summaries, and premium rates, click here.Already have medical, dental, and vision coverage? No problem! Full-time employees who choose to waive medical, dental, and vision coverage will receive a $125 monthly contribution into a tax-free Health Reimbursement Arrangement (HRA) VEBA account, which can be used to reimburse you for qualified out-of-pocket medical care costs, such as copays, deductibles, and prescription drugs. HRA accounts offer many benefits including significant tax savings, and no annual “use it or lose it” requirement. Proof of other creditable coverage is required.