=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Vote Center and Outreach Supervisor
Salary: $48,264.00 - $69,600.00 YEAR
Location: Boulder, CO, CO, 80302
Employer: Boulder County
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2022-04-10
Job Type: Full-time
Job Number: 4417(AT3)
Department: Clerk and Recorders Office
Opening Date: 04/11/2022
Closing Date: 4/24/2022 11:59 PM Mountain
FLSA: Non-Exempt

BENEFITS:
  • a family-friendly workplace, including paid caregiver leave, a breast feeding friendly-work environment, sick child care, an infants-at-work policy, and generous paid vacation, medical leave, and holidays
  • the opportunity to take charge of your well-being through a nationally-recognized wellness program, employee assistance program, and the choice of comprehensive health plans that include vision and dental coverage
  • peace of mind for the future with PERA pension, PERA 401k, and Social Security retirement plans, in addition to life and disability insurance, as well as critical illness and accidental insurance options
  • the opportunity to master new skills with robust learning programs and certificates, federal loan forgiveness (after ten years of public service), and county-paid tuition assistance for continuing education
  • Free EcoPass that can be used any time and for commuting to and from work, to the Denver Intranational Airport and Fort Collins and on all bus and rail lines operated by RTD. Opportunity to sign up for a free BCycle membership for bike share in Boulder.

For more information about benefits, visit the Jobs page: https://bouldercounty.gov/jobs/jobs-benefits/

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Deadline extended through Sunday, April 24th!

About the division
The Boulder County Clerk and Recorder's Office has an opening for a Vote Center and Outreach Supervisor/Administrative Lead Technician. This position supervises and coordinates Voter Service and Polling Center activities and supervises aspects of voter outreach programming. The Vote Center and Outreach Supervisor position reports to the Elections Manager – Voter Services.

The Elections Division provides comprehensive elections services for Boulder County, including voter records, voter services, ballot processing, technical and logistical support, and end-to end election administration. Commitment to building an inclusive, forward looking, continual improvement, and supportive work culture is required.

About the team
The Elections Division is passionate about the work we do for democracy and we are committed to facilitating the most positive voting experience in the country. We set a high bar for fulfilling our commitment to voters in Boulder County, and we are a national award-winning organization with a reputation for excellence, innovation, accuracy and continual improvement.

Commitment to ensuring we include historically excluded communities in our outreach and administration is vital to fulfilling our mission of facilitating democracy. This person must be committed to building a culture where individuals from any background can be successful, which includes ongoing work around disrupting patterns, systems, and behaviors of inequity and exclusion.

About the position
This position will be accountable for the day to day activities around the administration of Vote Centers (also referred to statewide as Voter Service and Polling Centers), where during general, primary, and coordinated elections, voters may register to vote or update their voter registration, vote in-person, request a replacement mail ballot, cast their mail ballot or vote using accessible equipment. This position will require the ability and desire to serve the public in Boulder County, hire and train up to 250 temporary staff, and coordinate work scheduling for all Vote Centers in the county. The ideal candidate would enjoy both driving the success of a project and working with a large, diverse group of people.

Additionally, election implementation requires regular review of processes, identification of national and state best practices, application of compliance requirements with state statute and rule, building powerful partnerships and regular coordination with co-workers in order to build and maintain the gold standard of service expected of elections work in Boulder County. In non-election time, this position will drive and support various voter outreach and engagement initiatives; including but not limited to conducting voter registration at new citizen ceremonies, outreach at community events, and spearheading our High School engagement work.  This position is expected to build strong working relationships with team members, vendors and stakeholders and be committed to Boulder County and Clerk and Recorder guiding values, including equity and inclusion.

This is a full-time, benefitted position.  This position will require overtime, nights and weekends during election season and is subject to periods of time when vacation scheduling is not allowed (because of the election calendar).  The Vote Center and Outreach Supervisor will work Monday - Thursday, 7:00am - 5:30pm during non-election time; this includes both in-office and telecommuting options.  This position will work out of the Boulder County Clerk and Recorder's Office, located at 1750 33rd St., Boulder, CO 80301.  Under Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA), this position is non-exempt (eligible for overtime).



As of December 1, 2021, Boulder County requires all employees to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 or request an approved accommodation within ten days of accepting an offer of employment.  A person is considered fully vaccinated two weeks after completion of a two-dose mRNA series or one dose of Johnson and Johnson vaccine. 


Boulder County requires its employees to reside in the state of Colorado as of the first day of work.
 
Hiring Salary Range: $44,688.00 - $54,564.00 Annually 
Classification Salary Range: $44,688.00 - $64,440.00 Annually 


Tentative Hiring Timeline:
Phone Screening: April 27th
First Round Interviews: May 2nd - 4th

 
Coordinate the recruitment, hiring, training, and placement of temporary election workers in accordance with state, county and Clerk and Recorder policies

Work with the Elections Manager – Voter Services to identify, survey, secure and implement Vote Center sites.

Ensure all procedures are compliant with Colorado Revised Statute, Colorado Secretary of State Rule, and Clerk and Recorder policies and procedures

Confirm all Vote Center ballot issuances are reconciled between several sets of elections data and work with other election staff to guarantee compliance with statutory regulations

Develop, refine, implement, and conduct multi-day training plan of Vote Center judges

Create comprehensive training guidelines and easy to follow training curriculum and manual(s)

Establish type and amount of equipment necessary at voting sites and oversee the coordination of site set-up and equipment validation.

Conduct voter engagement and outreach, including within high schools and colleges/universities

Troubleshoot and problem solve issues at Vote Centers as the primary point of contact for Vote Center judges

Write and/or update Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs)

Provide excellent service to voters by being proactive about welcoming questions and their participation while also providing timely, accurate responses

Regularly research national and state best practices regarding in-person voting and election judge coordination to ensure Boulder County is meeting, and leading, industry standards

Attend industry specific conferences and webinars. Network with peers, especially from other mail ballot counties (state and national level).

Complete course work necessary to obtain and maintain Colorado Election Certification to be compliant with Colorado Secretary of State standards

Use basic project planning skills to organize, implement, carryout and direct the work of special projects

Report plans, changes, updates and challenges to manager and election team in accordance with election process

Ensure all relevant elections data is tracked and retained to help with future election planning and voter education and outreach

Perform related work, as required
May be reassigned during emergency situations

PLEASE NOTE: When submitting your application be sure to include all relevant education and experience, as applications are screened based on the qualifications listed in this position announcement. Applications that do not appear to meet minimum qualifications, as outlined below, will not be considered. Resumes are not accepted in lieu of completed applications.


Please be aware that your cover letter and resume will not be accessed in the initial screening process, so you must complete your application and supplemental questions with as much detail as possible. Any personally identifiable information (PII) such as name and address will be redacted from applications that meet the minimum screening requirements and are forwarded to the hiring manager. If the hiring manager selects you to advance in the hiring process, your cover letter and resume will then be accessible to the hiring team.

EDUCATION & EXPERIENCE:
Boulder County is looking for well qualified candidates to fill our positions. Any combination of relevant education and experience is encouraged. In this position, we are looking for a minimum of a high school diploma or equivalent and four (4) years of office experience.   Additional related education may count towards required experience.
 

BACKGROUND CHECK:
A job offer is contingent on passing a criminal background investigation


DRIVER'S LICENSE:
Applicants must have a valid driver's license, a good driving record, and current automobile insurance

PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS: 
Experience in election administration is a plus, but not required

SCORE (Statewide Colorado Registration and Elections database) experience or voter database experience and knowledge of election law and process

Knowledge of current adult education practices

At least six months in a people training OR community outreach capacity 

KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, & ABILITIES:
Thorough knowledge of modern office practices, procedures and departmental policies and regulations
Considerable skill in operating office equipment
Ability to use a personal computer for word processing, organizing information and transcribing notes to meet the demands of the position
Ability to work effectively with the public
 

Boulder County is a family-friendly workplace dedicated to fostering a diverse, inclusive, and respectful environment for all employees. We prohibit unlawful discrimination against applicants and employees on the basis of race, color, religion, gender, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, socio-economic status, sexual orientation, genetic information, or any other status protected by applicable federal, state, or local law.

 


 