=== JOB DETAILS ===

Salary: $3,952.00 - $5,257.00 Monthly
Location: Thurston County, WA
Job Type: Regular Full-Time Employee
Job Number: 02R00057
Department: Auditor
Opening Date: 12/10/2019
Closing Date: 1/21/2020 11:13 AM Pacific
FLSA: Non-Exempt
Bargaining Unit: AFSCME CO

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

If you are a reliable, responsible and dedicated individual who is looking to make a difference in the community, we are looking for you!

The Thurston County Auditor's Office is looking for a candidate to join our outstanding team as our Election Outreach Coordinator.  In this role, the successful candidate will coordinate activities related to candidates, voter and election outreach.  This position also develops and produces election information and voter education materials and prepares and disseminates informational materials to encourage citizen participation in the election process.

Additional responsibilities would include, but not be limited to the following:
Participates in design and updating of the website;
Develops and implements public information strategies for election programs and projects based on internal and external communication needs;
Serves as primary staff for election-related public information activities and coordinates other staff, agencies, and volunteers;
Works with the Voting Accessibility Advisory Committee (VAAC) to increase voter access to voting information and programs;
Coordinates candidate filing activities; communicates with districts and candidates for positions up for election, compiling contact and salary information and prepares informational publications for citizens planning on running for public office;
Coordinates with elementary, middle, and high schools to run their ASB elections.  Includes programming ballots, proofing, logic and accuracy test, and providing equipment needed to tabulate the election.  Works with community organizations for other elections i.e, Thurston County Fair and YMCA Youth in Government Elections and;
Reviews procedures to ensure they are current and updated according to RCW and WAC.

**The screening process for this position is ongoing and will continue until the position is filled.  The Thurston County Auditor's Office reserves the right to close the recruitment at any time.**

To be considered for this position, you will need the following Qualifications:

High School Diploma/GED with college courses in public relations, graphic design, or public administration. Additional experience may be substituted for education;
Three years of office experience, which includes public relations and desktop publishing;
Must have accurate and reliable keyboard skills;
Ability to utilize a personal computer and related software packages to perform word processing, analysis, information retrieval and tracking;
A current Washington State Driver License and;
Election Certification (may be obtained through the Office of the Secretary of State within two years of the date of hire).

Knowledge of the political system, State and County statutes/ordinances, precincts, election laws, and election procedures.
Working familiarity and knowledge of social media.
Working familiarity and knowledge of SharePoint website publishing.
Working familiarity and knowledge of PowerPoint, Photoshop, InDesign and Adobe Suite.
Ability to make effective professional public presentations.

Questions about this Position?
The contact person for this recruitment is Tillie Naputi-Pullar, 360-786-5408.

This position is:
-Represented by a Union
-Eligible for benefits
-Eligible for overtime under the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA)
 
Items required for consideration:
- Application
- Letter of Interest
- Resume