=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Administrative Specialist III (Elections Specialist Lead)
Salary: $24.87 - $31.66 HOUR
Location: WA 98057-2906, WA, WA, 98104
Employer: King County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2022-01-19
Job Type: zzDNU_Special Duty Assign or Term Ltdt Temp (TLT)
Job Number: 2022RL15200
Department: KCE - King County Elections
Division: Ballot Processing & Delivery
Opening Date: 01/19/2022
Closing Date: 2/4/2022 12:00 AM Pacific
FLSA: Non-Exempt
Bargaining Unit: F1A : L117-Admin

BENEFITS:
  • Excellent medical, dental, and vision coverage options: King County provides eligible employees with options, so they can decide what’s best for themselves and their eligible dependents
  • Life and disability insurance: employees are provided basic coverage and given the opportunity to purchase additional insurance for both the employee and eligible dependents
  • Retirement: eligible King County employees may participate in a pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems and a 457(b) deferred-compensation plan
  • Transportation program and ORCA transit pass
  • 12 paid holidays each year plus two personal holidays
  • Generous vacation and paid sick leave
  • Paid parental, family and medical, and volunteer leaves
  • Flexible Spending Account
  • Wellness programs
  • Onsite activity centers
  • Employee Giving Program
  • Employee assistance programs
  • Flexible schedules and telecommuting options, depending on position
  • Training and career development programs

For additional information about employee benefits, visit our
Benefits, Payroll, and Retirement Page
.
This is a general description of the benefits offered to eligible King County employees, and every effort has been made to ensure its accuracy.  If any information on this document conflicts with the provisions of a collective bargaining agreement (CBA), the CBA prevails.
NOTE:
Benefits for Term Limited Temporary (TLT) or Short Term Temporary (STT) positions, including leave eligibility and/or participation in the pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems, will vary based upon the terms and details of the position. Short Term Temporary positions are not eligible for an ORCA transit pass.
For inquiries about the specifics of this position, please contact the recruiter identified on this job posting.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

This is an amazing opportunity to be engaged in the election process!

   
This position will be filled as a Term-Limited Temporary position or Special Duty Assignment for current King County employees who have passed their initial probationary period.  It is anticipated to last through January 2023.
 
This position will lead processes, projects, and people within the Scan work area of Ballot Processing.  This will include leading, coaching, mentoring, and training temporary and regular staff. Leads may also provide assistance and/or participate in long-term cross-training in multiple work areas to meet organizational agile efforts. This is a great opportunity for a person with strong communication and interpersonal skills.
 
The Department of Elections is searching for an energetic and resourceful professional who likes to get stuff done. The Administrative Specialist III in the Elections Department combines an exciting environment with the opportunity to cultivate talents and apply a variety of skills. The ideal candidate will thrive in an innovative, fast-paced environment and will not hesitate to roll up both sleeves, work hard, have fun, and get the job done.
 
King County Elections (KCE) manages voter registration and elections for more than 1.4 million voters in King County and is the largest vote-by-mail county in the United States. KCE's mission is to conduct accessible, secure, and accurate elections. As a leader in providing inclusive elections, KCE is focused on three key priorities – (1) actively identifying and working to remove barriers to voting at both the individual and community level, (2) strengthening relationships with community and governmental partners, and (3) creating a culture of professional growth and development, openness and inclusion. Learn more at www.kingcounty.gov/elections.aspx
 
Who May Apply:  This position is open to the general public and all King County employees.
 
Materials Required to Apply: A completed online King County employment Application at www.kingcounty.gov/jobs and a Resume and Cover Letter are required and should be attached before submitting your application.  The cover letter should describe how your skills and experience meet or exceed the requirements of the job.
 
Work Schedule:  This position is subject to the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act and is overtime eligible. The workweek is typically 35 hours per week, 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. This position is expected to be able to work during sudden changes to schedule that may include early mornings, late nights, weekends, and holidays during designated election times. Mandatory overtime (including weekends or evenings) will be required during elections and other peak work periods.

Lead, organize, and coordinate ballot scanning work activities.
Provide training and direction to diverse work groups.
Improve work processes, address quality control issues, and document procedures and work instructions.
Develop spreadsheets, word documents, and reports; review documents for proper formatting and accuracy.
Research and resolve questions, problems, or inquiries from staff, citizens and/or stakeholders.
Communicate and coordinate hand-offs to and from other work groups. 
Distribute workload, provide direction and monitor the quality and completion of work in the scan room.
Complete daily reconciliation of ballots received, scanned and processed. 
Select, research and report specialized or technical information from varied system or process sources, i.e. spreadsheets and customized database applications.
Assist in the production and reporting of election results.
Coordinate and oversee the routine maintenance of ballot scanning hardware to ensure optimum performance during elections.
Provide clear communication to election observers and other stakeholders regarding process and status updates.  

Experience providing oversight to a diverse group of workers in a team focused environment. 
Demonstrated ability to provide excellent verbal and written communication including instruction, training, and feedback. 
Work experience that includes maintaining and tracking data and data analysis. 
Experience presenting information to large diverse audiences. 
Demonstrated ability maintaining a professional demeanor and providing timely and reliable customer service. 
Demonstrated skill in handling stressful situations effectively while maintaining composure. 
Experience maintaining confidentiality, while sharing the right information with the appropriate people. 
Demonstrated ability managing quickly changing priorities and quickly changing information. Ability to multi-task in a busy environment. 
Ability to work cooperatively with a variety of individuals in a team environment. 
Demonstrated comfort with the use of Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Word, email and electronic record filing systems to create correspondence and spreadsheets, send and receive information, access and analyze data, and develop reports and outreach materials.

Travel to work locations throughout King County with limited or no public transportation services is required. A valid Washington State Driver's License is required to operate King County vehicles.
 
Physical Requirements:  The duties in this position are performed in an office setting and may be required to lift at least 25 lbs and up to 50 pounds in a team setting.  
 
Union Representation: This position is represented by Teamsters, Local 117, Professional & Technical and Administrative Employees.
 
Temporary Telecommuting Requirement 
The work associated with this position will be performed through a combination of mandatory onsite work complemented with telecommuting work and meetings as needed. Employees must reside in Washington state and within a reasonable distance to their King County worksite to respond to workplace reporting requirements.
 
Employees will be provided with a County issued laptop and must maintain a workspace with an internet connection (access may be supplemented in some situations) where they can reliably perform work and remain available and responsive during scheduled work hours. Please note that when an employee conducts work that is likely to bring them in contact with another individual, safety precautions are required, including the wearing of masks in some situations. King County is doing its part to reduce the spread of COVID-19 and remains committed to reducing our carbon footprint.
   
King County has a robust collection of tools and resources to support working remotely. The individual selected for this opportunity will be joining an innovative and progressive team that is redefining how we work as we transition to the department's hybrid environment.  
   
Forbes recently named King County as one of Washington State's best employers.
          
Together, with leadership and our employees, we're changing the way government delivers service and winning national recognition as a model of excellence. Are you ready to make a difference? Come join the team dedicated to serving one of the nation's best places to live, work and play.
   
Guided by our "True North", we are making King County a welcoming community where every person can thrive. We value diversity, inclusion and belonging in our workplace and workforce. To reach this goal we are committed to workforce equity. Equitable recruiting, support, and retention is how we will obtain the highest quality workforce in our region; a workforce that shares and will help advance our guiding principles--we are one team; we solve problems; we focus on the customer; we drive for results; we are racially just; we respect all people; we lead the way; and we are responsible stewards. We encourage people of all backgrounds and identities to apply, including Native American and people of color, immigrants, refugees, women, LGBTQ+, people living with disabilities, and veterans.

Covid-19 Vaccination Requirement
 
King County Executive Branch employees are required to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. If you are the successful candidate for the position you applied for, the County will send you a conditional offer letter.
 
 As a condition of employment, prior to a final offer of employment, you will be required to:
 


submit proof of vaccination or
have an approved request for medical or religious exemption and an approved accommodation. Philosophical, political, scientific, or sociological objections to vaccination will not be considered for an exemption or accommodation.
People are considered fully vaccinated against COVID-19 two weeks after receiving the final dose of a vaccination approved by the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
 
The Executive Branch includes employees in the Executive branch, the Assessor’s Office, Elections, the King County Sheriff’s Office, and the Executive Office.
  
King County is an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Employer
No person is unlawfully excluded from employment opportunities based on race, color, religion, national origin, sex (including gender identity, sexual orientation and pregnancy), age, genetic information, disability, veteran status, or other protected class. Our EEO policy applies to all employment actions, including but not limited to recruitment, hiring, selection for training, promotion, transfer, demotion, layoff, termination, rates of pay or other forms of compensation.
 
To Apply 
If you are interested in pursuing this position, please follow the application instructions carefully. If you need this announcement in an alternate language or format, would like to request accommodation or assistance in the application or assessment process or if you have questions please contact your recruiter listed on this job announcement.
   
 For more information regarding this recruitment, please contact: 
   Reeshema Lewis
   Sr. HR Business Partner
   Email:  Reeshema.Lewis@kingcounty.gov 
   Phone: 206-263-8413