=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Election Assistant
Salary: $20.13 - $26.88 HOUR
Location: Rochester, MN, MN, 55904-3710
Employer: Olmsted County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2024-08-12
Job Type: Provisional Part-Time
Department: Property Records & Licensing
Opening Date: 08/13/2024
Closing Date: 9/3/2024 12:00 AM Central
FLSA: Non-Exempt
Hours of Work: 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday
Union: Non Contract

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Recognized as one of the best places to work in Southeast Minnesota for three consecutive years, at Olmsted County every role helps to foster a vibrant community where everyone thrives. Our employees are at the heart of everything we do, driving public service excellence and community well-being.

We don’t just offer a job, we offer a career filled with purpose, growth, and fulfillment. Our benefits package ensures your wellbeing, while career advancement opportunities and professional development empower you to reach your full potential.

Join us, and you'll be part of a purpose-driven team where your work truly makes a difference. Together, we build a sustainable, healthy, and welcoming community.

Expected salary is $20.13 to $26.88.  Full salary range $20.13 to $33.63.

High school graduation, G.E.D, or foreign education equivalent to a US High School Diploma.

OR

Experience equivalent to six (6) months of experience in a customer-focused position.

Regular and reliable attendance is a necessary component of job/position. Individuals required to use County vehicles and equipment must have a valid driver's license and be free of any major traffic violations for the last three (3) years.

Required Special Qualifications:

Must complete training required by law within thirty (30) days of employment.
Must be able to work evening and weekend hours.

Under supervision, assists with Olmsted County’s election process. Provides customer service to voters in person, via mail, and through long-term care facility visits. Answers phone calls, directs the public to polling places, monitors supplies, and answers questions.

Assists voters with the absentee voting process.
Performs clerical duties including customer service, filing, answering phone calls and data entry to support the election process.
Assists on Election Day by answering questions, monitoring supplies, ballot counting, and directing traffic.
Processes absentee records on a statewide system.
Prepares equipment and supplies for Election Day.
Assists with election judge training.
Performs other related job duties as assigned.

Knowledge of the election process.
Knowledge of office practices and procedures.
Skill in the use of office equipment.
Skill in interpersonal communication.
Skill in the use of basic business math.
Ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships with others.
Ability to use computers and related software programs.
Ability to resolve customer concerns and complaints respectfully.
Ability to prioritize tasks.
Ability to follow oral and written instructions.

Persons with disabilities: the above is a general listing of job duties. Essential and non-essential functions may vary by individual position. Reasonable accommodations may be available for both essential and non-essential job duties.

Physical Demands and Work Environment: In compliance with Americans with Disabilities Act, the following represents the Physical and Environmental Demands:

Function:

	

24% or Less

	

25% - 49%

	

50%-74%

	

75% or more




Office environment

	
	
	
	

X




In Vehicle

	

X

	
	
	



Sitting

	
	
	
	

X




Standing, walking, reaching

	
	
	

X

	



Crouching

	
	

X

	
	



Pulling, climbing, kneeling, stooping, balancing, crawling

	

X

	
	
	



Pushing up to 75 pounds

	

X

	
	
	



Lifting up to 45 pounds

	
	

X

	
	



Repetitive hand movements, typing/data entry

	
	
	
	

X




Talking, hearing

	
	
	
	

X




Close and distance vision

	
	
	
	

X




Color vision, Accommodation

	
	

X

	
	



Depth perception, field of vision

	

X

	
	
	



Medium effort (exert up to 50 pounds of force)

	
	
	

X

	


An Equal Opportunity Employer

Additional Considerations

This is a Rochester, MN based position and is not remote eligible at this time.
International relocation or international remote working arrangements (outside of the US) will not be considered.
Applicants for this position must be currently authorized to work in the United States.
Olmsted County does not sponsor applicants for this position.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        I understand that I must thoroughly complete the Education, Work Experience, Certificates and Licenses, and Supplemental Questions sections of my application.  This includes a detailed description of all work experience that I feel qualifies me for the job I am seeking.  I also understand that I may not submit resumes in lieu of filling out the application or answering the Supplemental Questions.
        
        
                I have read the above statement and understand that failure to provide sufficient detailed information may result in my application being rejected or my receiving a lower examination score which may make me ineligible for further consideration in this recruitment process.
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        You must meet the minimum qualifications to be considered for the Election Assistant position.  Please select the answer that best describes your education and experience.
        
        
                High school graduation, G.E.D., or foreign education equivalent to a US High School Diploma.
                Experience equivalent to six (6) months of experience in a customer-focused position.
                No related education and/or experience as listed above.
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Do you have a valid driver's license?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Have you completed the Administrative Office Professional Certification pathway through the Hawthorne Education Center?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        How many years of election experience do you have (do not include voting as experience)
performing election work or volunteer experience?
        
        
                No experience
                Less than 1 year
                More than 1 year, but less than 2
                More than 2 years, but less than 3
                More than 3 years, but less than 4
                More than 4 years, but less than 5
                5 or more years
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        How many years of experience you have in customer service, filing, answering phone calls and data entry?
        
        
                No experience
                Less than 1 year
                More than 1 year, but less than 2
                More than 2 years, but less than 3
                More than 3 years, but less than 4
                More than 4 years, but less than 5
                5 or more years
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Please indicate whether you have experience with the following software programs. Mark all the apply:
        
        
                Microsoft Word
                Microsoft Excel
                Microsoft Outlook
                Microsoft SharePoint
                Microsoft Publisher
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        