=== JOB DETAILS ===

Salary: $23.19 - $30.43 Hourly
Location: WA 98057-2906, WA
Job Type: Career Service, Full Time, 35 hrs/week
Job Number: 2018RL09094
Department: Department of Elections
Opening Date: 12/14/2018
Closing Date: 12/28/2018 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Non-Exempt
Bargaining Unit: F1A : L117-Admin

BENEFITS:
  • Medical, dental, and vision coverage: King County pays 100% of the premiums for eligible employees and family members
  • Life and disability insurance: employees are provided basic coverage and given the opportunity to purchase additional insurance for both the employee and eligible dependents
  • Retirement: King County employees are eligible to participate in a pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems and a 457(b) deferred-compensation plan
  • Transportation program and ORCA transit pass
  • 10 paid holidays each year (plus 2 personal holidays)
  • Generous vacation and paid sick leave
  • Paid parental leave, family and medical leaves, and volunteer leave
  • Flexible Spending Account
  • Wellness programs
  • Onsite gyms and activity centers
  • Employee giving program
  • Employee assistance programs
  • Flexible schedules and telecommuting options, depending on position
  • Training and career development programs

For additional information about employee benefits please visit our
Benefits, Payroll, and Retirement Page
.
This is a general description of the benefits offered to eligible King County employees, and every effort has been made to ensure its accuracy.  If any information on this document conflicts with the provisions of a collective bargaining agreement (CBA), the CBA prevails.  Also, in the event of any incorrect information in this document, applicable laws, policies, rules, CBAs, or official plan documents will prevail.
NOTE:
Benefits for Term Limited Temporary (TLT) or Short Term Temporary (STT) positions, including leave eligibility and/or participation in the pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems, will vary based upon the terms and details of the position. Short Term Temporary positions are not eligible for an ORCA transit pass.
For inquiries about the specifics of this position, please contact the recruiter identified on this job posting.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

This is an amazing opportunity to be engaged in the election process!

The Department of Elections is recruiting a Ballot Collection Lead for the Elections Services Division.  Under the direction of the Ballot Collection & Logistics Supervisor, this position will provide logistical support for ballot collection, fleet, and warehouse tasks and lead processes, projects and temporary staff.  With over 60 ballot drop box locations throughout King County, this is a work group that continues to grow and evolve.  This is a great opportunity for a detail oriented person with warehouse/receiving, data entry and strong interpersonal skills.   

WHO WE ARE:  Our mission is to conduct fair, open and accurate elections. We manage voter registrations and elections for more than 1.3 million voters in King County, the largest vote-by-mail county in the United States and our vision is to be the leader in providing inclusive elections.  King County Elections is focused on three key priorities – (1) actively identifying and working to remove barriers to voting at both the individual and community level, (2) strengthening relationships with community and governmental partners, and (3) creating a culture of professional growth and development, openness and inclusion. Learn more at www.kingcounty.gov/elections.aspx.  You can also find us on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and you can learn about current events on our blog.
 
The Department of Elections is searching for an energetic and resourceful professional who likes to "get stuff done". The Ballot Collection Lead position in the Elections Department combines an exciting, fast-paced environment with the opportunity to cultivate talents and apply a variety of skills. The ideal candidate will thrive in an innovative, fast-paced environment and will not hesitate to roll up both sleeves, work hard, have fun, and get the job done. 
 
WHO MAY APPLY:  This position is open to the general public and all King County employees. The most competitive applicants will be contacted for further steps in the selection process.
 
WORK SCHEDULE:  This position is subject to the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act and is overtime eligible. The workweek is typically 35 hours per week, 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. Position is expected to be able to work during sudden changes to schedule that may include early mornings, late nights, weekends, and holidays during designated election times. Mandatory overtime (including weekends or evenings) will be required during elections and other peak work periods.
 
REQUIRED MATERIALS: A resume and cover letter are required and should be attached before submitting your application.  The cover letter should describe how your skills and experience meet or exceed the requirements of the job.
 

Using established expectations and measurement guidelines, assist in developing the expected returns forecast and propose staffing and ballot collection methods for each election.
Distribute work load among short term temporary employees, provide direction and training and monitor the quality and completion of work.
Assist in establishing work methods and recommending changes in work load and procedures to improve work processes.
Organize and coordinate work activities, assist in employee selection, and provide input on the performance of staff.
Provide direction to driving teams and drop box closers, including assigning teams, training and dispatching workgroups, ballot security during transit, and troubleshooting emergent issues.
Assist with drop box collection and closing needs including box integrity and maintenance, election night security and supplies.
Interpret established policies, procedures, and regulations to employees and customers.
Research and resolve questions, problems, or inquiries from staff, citizens, and stakeholders.
May also provide assistance with ballot delivery, proofing the Voter's pamphlet, performing data entry, retrieving and editing records, and providing excellent customer service.

WE ARE LOOKING FOR CANDIDATES WHO HAVE:
 

Experience providing oversight to a diverse group of workers in a team focused environment.
Demonstrated ability to provide excellent verbal and written communication including instruction, training, and feedback.
Work experience that includes maintaining and tracking data, data analysis, and designing and maintaining data sources.
Experience presenting information to large diverse audiences.
Demonstrated ability maintaining a professional demeanor and providing timely and reliable customer service preferably in a public environment.
Demonstrated skill in handling stressful situations effectively while maintaining composure.
Experience maintaining confidentiality, while sharing the right information with the appropriate people.
Demonstrated ability managing quickly changing priorities and quickly changing information.
Experience in problem solving, research, analysis and assessing information requiring initiative and a self-starter.
Ability to multi-task in a busy environment.
Ability to work cooperatively with a variety of individuals in a team environment.
Demonstrated comfort with the use of Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Word, email and electronic record filing systems to create correspondence and spreadsheets, send and receive information, access and analyze data, and develop reports and outreach materials.
Ability to assess the need for a change of course and then implement the adjustment clearly and decisively.

DESIRABLE QUALIFICATIONS:
 
Knowledge and proficient use of routing or logistical software (Marshall GIS LiGo, ESRI Workforce, etc.).
Experience with dispatch processes.
Working knowledge of election operations.

PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS:  The duties in this position are performed in an office setting and may be required to lift at least 20 pounds independently and up to 50 pounds in a team setting. 
 
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION:
Travel to work locations throughout King County with limited or no public transportation services is required. A valid Washington State Driver's License is required to operate King County vehicles.  A final offer of employment will be contingent upon the submission of an official Washington State Driving Abstract demonstrating a good driving record and reference check.

UNION: This position is represented by Teamsters, Local 117, Administrative Support union.

King County is proud to be an Equal Employment Opportunity /Affirmative Action employer and we encourage people of color, women, veterans and people with disabilities to apply.
 
For more information regarding this recruitment, please contact: 
Reeshema Lewis
Sr. Human Resources Analyst
Reeshema.Lewis@kingcounty.gov
(206) 263-8413