=== JOB DETAILS ===

Salary: $23.19 - $30.43 Hourly
Location: WA 98057-2906, WA
Job Type: Career Service, Full Time, 35 hrs/week
Job Number: 2018RL09083
Department: Department of Elections
Opening Date: 12/14/2018
Closing Date: 12/28/2018 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Non-Exempt
Bargaining Unit: F1A : L117-Admin

BENEFITS:
  • Medical, dental, and vision coverage: King County pays 100% of the premiums for eligible employees and family members
  • Life and disability insurance: employees are provided basic coverage and given the opportunity to purchase additional insurance for both the employee and eligible dependents
  • Retirement: King County employees are eligible to participate in a pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems and a 457(b) deferred-compensation plan
  • Transportation program and ORCA transit pass
  • 10 paid holidays each year (plus 2 personal holidays)
  • Generous vacation and paid sick leave
  • Paid parental leave, family and medical leaves, and volunteer leave
  • Flexible Spending Account
  • Wellness programs
  • Onsite gyms and activity centers
  • Employee giving program
  • Employee assistance programs
  • Flexible schedules and telecommuting options, depending on position
  • Training and career development programs

For additional information about employee benefits please visit our
Benefits, Payroll, and Retirement Page
.
This is a general description of the benefits offered to eligible King County employees, and every effort has been made to ensure its accuracy.  If any information on this document conflicts with the provisions of a collective bargaining agreement (CBA), the CBA prevails.  Also, in the event of any incorrect information in this document, applicable laws, policies, rules, CBAs, or official plan documents will prevail.
NOTE:
Benefits for Term Limited Temporary (TLT) or Short Term Temporary (STT) positions, including leave eligibility and/or participation in the pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems, will vary based upon the terms and details of the position. Short Term Temporary positions are not eligible for an ORCA transit pass.
For inquiries about the specifics of this position, please contact the recruiter identified on this job posting.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

This is an amazing opportunity to be engaged in the election process!

The Department of Elections is recruiting for one (1) Ballot Processing Lead and one (1) Voter Services Lead.  These positions will lead processes, projects, and people which will include leading, coaching, mentoring, and training temporary and regular staff.  Leads may also provide assistance and/or participate in long-term cross-training in multiple work areas to meet organizational agile efforts. This is a great opportunity for a customer service oriented person with strong communication and interpersonal skills.   

WHO WE ARE:  Our mission is to conduct fair, open and accurate elections. We manage voter registrations and elections for more than 1.3 million voters in King County, the largest vote-by-mail county in the United States and our vision is to be the leader in providing inclusive elections.  King County Elections is focused on three key priorities – (1) actively identifying and working to remove barriers to voting at both the individual and community level, (2) strengthening relationships with community and governmental partners, and (3) creating a culture of professional growth and development, openness and inclusion. Learn more at www.kingcounty.gov/elections.aspx.  You can also find us on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and you can learn about current events on our blog.
 
The Department of Elections is searching for an energetic and resourceful professional who likes to "get stuff done". These Elections Specialist Lead positions in the Elections Department combine an exciting, fast-paced environment with the opportunity to cultivate talent and apply a variety of skills. The ideal candidate will thrive in an innovative, fast-paced environment and will not hesitate to roll up both sleeves, work hard, have fun, and get the job done. 
 
WHO MAY APPLY:  These career service positions are open to the general public and all King County employees. The most competitive applicants will be contacted for further steps in the selection process.
 
WORK SCHEDULE:  These positions are subject to the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act and is overtime eligible. The workweek is typically 35 hours per week, 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. The positions are expected to be able to work during sudden changes to schedule that may include early mornings, late nights, weekends, and holidays during designated election times. Mandatory overtime (including weekends or evenings) will be required during elections and other peak work periods.
 
REQUIRED MATERIALS: A resume and cover letter are required and should be attached before submitting your application.  The cover letter should describe how your skills and experience meet or exceed the requirements of the job.
 

Organize and coordinate work activities; provide training and direction to diverse work groups.
Improve work processes, address quality control issues, and document procedures and work instructions.
Develop spreadsheets, word documents, and reports; review documents for proper formatting and accuracy.
Research and resolve questions, problems, or inquiries from staff, citizens and/or stakeholders.

In addition to the job duties above, each position will lead the processes and teams in their specified area below and perform job duties that may include:

VOTER SERVICES:
Data Entry Lead Position
 
Ensure accurate voter registration records for 1.3 million registered voters in King County.
Lead the team responsible for voter registration maintenance such as cancellations and changes of address.
Distribute workload, provide direction and monitor the quality and completion of work.

BALLOT PROCESSING:
Scanning Lead Position
 
Distribute workload, provide direction and monitor the quality and completion of work in the scan room.
Complete daily reconciliation of ballots received, scanned and processed.  Select, research and report specialized or technical information from varied system or process sources, i.e. spreadsheets and customized database applications.
Assist in the production and reporting of election results.
Coordinate and oversee the routine maintenance of ballot scanning hardware to ensure optimum performance during elections.

Experience providing oversight to a diverse group of workers in a team focused environment.
Demonstrated ability to provide excellent verbal and written communication including instruction, training, and feedback.
Work experience that includes maintaining and tracking data and data analysis.
Experience presenting information to large diverse audiences.
Demonstrated ability maintaining a professional demeanor and providing timely and reliable customer service.
Demonstrated skill in handling stressful situations effectively while maintaining composure.
Experience maintaining confidentiality, while sharing the right information with the appropriate people.
Demonstrated ability managing quickly changing priorities and quickly changing information. Ability to multi-task in a busy environment.
Ability to work cooperatively with a variety of individuals in a team environment.
Demonstrated comfort with the use of Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Word, email and electronic record filing systems to create correspondence and spreadsheets, send and receive information, access and analyze data, and develop reports and outreach materials.

DESIRABLE QUALIFICATION:
Working knowledge of election operations.

PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS:  The duties in this position are performed in an office setting and may be required to lift at least 20 pounds independently and up to 50 pounds in a team setting. 
 
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION:
Travel to work locations throughout King County with limited or no public transportation services is required. A valid Washington State Driver's License is required to operate King County vehicles. 

UNION: This position is represented by Teamsters, Local 117, Administrative Support union.

King County is proud to be an Equal Employment Opportunity /Affirmative Action employer and we encourage people of color, women, veterans and people with disabilities to apply.
 
For more information regarding this recruitment, please contact: 
Reeshema Lewis
Sr. HR Business Partner
Reeshema.Lewis@kingcounty.gov
(206) 263-8413

 