=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Division Director
Salary: $99,345.18 - $129,148.73 YEAR
Location: Austin, TX, TX, 78701
Employer: Travis County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2024-02-07
Job Type: Full Time
Job Number: 24-08985
Department: County Clerk
Opening Date: 02/08/2024
Closing Date: 3/28/2024 11:59 PM Central

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Are you looking for career opportunities that provide top-notch benefits including paid vacation and sick leave, parental leave, outstanding health, vision, and dental insurance, a free health clinic for you and your dependents, a generous retirement plan, and much more? Then bring your talents to Travis County!  

Directs, administers and manages operational activities of a divisional area.

DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS:

This is a job classification within the Management job family. Incumbents in this classification directs and administers operational activities. This classification may require a flexible work schedule in order to meet the needs of the department.

Directs and administers operational activities. Manages systems, staff and equipment. Ensures that systems comply with applicable federal, state and local election laws.
Directs, manages and controls division budget. Prepares and submits a variety of fiscal and administrative reports. Ensures adequate resources available for operation of division.
Designs, budgets, implements, monitors and evaluates operations. Directs the annual work plan to achieve organizational mission statement, stated goals and objectives. Evaluates and reports on performance and develops and implements quality improvements strategies.
Solicits, conducts initial negotiations for, and drafts new contracts with other governmental entities for providing any combination of election services.
Serves as liaison with other agencies and the media with regard to elections issues.
Supervises support staff, evaluates staff job performance, coordinates and prioritizes schedules and assignments. Authorizes staff productive and non-productive work hours. Orients and trains staff, including assignments and distribution of workload to adjust to changing priorities.
Performs other job-related duties as assigned.

Education and Experience:
Bachelor's degree in Public Administration, Business Administration, Business Management, Government, Political Science or a directly related field AND five (5) years of increasingly responsible elections program division level experience, including four (4) years of mid- to senior level supervisory or management experience;

OR,

Any combination of education and experience that has been achieved and is equivalent to the stated education and experience and required knowledge, skills, and abilities sufficient to successfully perform the duties and responsibilities of this job.

Licenses, Registrations, Certifications, or Special Requirements:
Valid Texas Driver's License.

Preferred:
Master's degree in Public Administration, Business Administration, Business Management, Government, Political Science or a directly related field.
Elections and handling deadline oriented projects experience.

Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities:

Knowledge of:

Federal, State, Local and City election laws, ordinances, rules, regulations, guidelines and legislative processes.
Strategic planning and production-related project management.
Management of automated voting systems and information system technology and software applications.
Management and supervisory principles, practices and techniques.
Practices in record-keeping functions.
Standard practices in area of assignment.
Supervisory principles, practices and techniques.
Online computer searches.
Budget preparation and office management.
Computer equipment to include word processing, spreadsheets, databases and a variety of software packages.
Business letter writing, grammar and punctuation, and report preparation.
Skill in:
Resolving supervisory/management issues, including planning and managing teams.
Problem-solving and decision-making.
Conflict resolution and community relations.
Public speaking and content delivery.
Both verbal and written communication, including presentations.
Ability to:
Train and supervise office personnel.
Plan, organize and effectively direct projects.
Develop and implement new and innovative ideas.
Work on a wide variety of tasks simultaneously and produce timely and tangible results.
Address complex issues.
Understand and interpret election laws, ordinances, rules and regulations.
Plan and manage elections and election-related processes.
Manage time well, perform multiple tasks and organize diverse activities.
Work independently.
Develop, analyze and interpret complex policies, regulations and procedures.
Research, compile, analyze, interpret and prepare a variety of fiscal, statistical and administrative reports.
Establish and maintain effective working relationships with departmental clientele, technical employees, state and local officials, elected and appointed officials, members of the media, outside agencies, other County employees and officials, and the general public.

Physical requirements include the ability to lift/carry up to 20-50 pounds, visual acuity, speech and hearing, hand and eye coordination and manual dexterity necessary to operate a computer and office equipment. Subject to standing, walking, sitting, repetitive motion, reaching, climbing stairs, bending, stooping, kneeling, crouching, crawling, pushing, pulling, balancing, client/customer contact, squatting to perform the essential functions.

Travis County employees play an important role in business continuity. As such, employees can be assigned to business continuity efforts outside of normal job functions.

This job description is intended to be generic in nature. It is not necessarily an exhaustive list of all duties and responsibilities. The essential duties, functions and responsibilities and overtime eligibility may vary based on the specific tasks assigned to the position.



Work Hours: 8 AM - 5 PM; Monday through Friday. Some nights/weekends/holidays

 

Location: 5501 Airport Blvd, Austin, TX 78751 

 

Department: County Clerk 

 

Criminal Background Check, Education, and Employment History Check Required. 

BenefitsEmployment at Travis County comes with a full array of benefits. We offer comprehensive health insurance, a no-cost, on-site Health and Wellness clinic, longevity pay, paid vacations, sick time and personal holidays, not to mention an industry competitive salary structure and a friendly, stable work environment.FY2023 Travis County Benefit GuideIn this valuable Travis County Benefits Guide you will find benefit summaries, eligibility requirements, costs, contact numbers and addresses as well as other general information on the benefits available to Travis County Employees and Retirees.Credit UnionEmployees may join the Travis County Credit Union which offers low-interest loans, savings plans through payroll deduction, safe deposit boxes and other benefits.Deferred CompensationEmployees may enroll in a tax- free sheltered investment plan through payroll deduction.Direct DepositEmployees may sign up for direct bank deposit.Employee Assistance ProgramTravis County provides a confidential counseling and referral service free of charge to county employees and their family.Employee OrganizationsMembership in the American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees Union is available through payroll deduction.Employee Health & Wellness ClinicEmployees may access the clinic for a variety of wellness program and health care services with no co-pay, no deductible and no co-insurance costs.HolidaysAn average of eleven paid holidays are designated by the Travis County Commissioners Court at the beginning of each fiscal year.LongevityLongevity pay is paid for each year completed after three years of continuous service. Peace Officers in a law enforcement activity, whose job requires state peace officer certification, receive pay after one year of certification.ParkingA limited number of assigned parking spaces are available to employees in the Courthouse Complex.Personal HolidaysRegular, full-time employees are eligible for up to three paid personal holidays each calendar year. Part-time employees shall be granted personal holidays on a prorated basis. New employees earn personal holidays for the calendar year in which he/she begins employment, based on the month in which employment begins:January – March3 personal holidays April - June2 personal holidays July - September1 personal holiday October - DecemberNoneNew employees are eligible to take personal holidays after 90 days of employment.RetirementTravis County is a member of the Texas County & District Retirement System with mandatory participation by certain classes of employees. Matching of two hundred twenty-five (225%) and a seven percent (7%) of the gross salary is deducted each pay period. An employee is fully vested after eight years of service. Benefits are prorated for part-time employees.Sick LeaveRegular employees earn sick leave at a rate of eight hours per month with unlimited accrual during employment. Part-time employees earn sick leave on a pro-rated basis.Parental LeaveEach Full-time Paid Parental Leave Eligible (PPL) Employee is entitled to a total of 320 hours of Paid Parental Leave in a 12 month period. Paid Parental Leave for Part-time PPL Eligible Employees is prorated based on the number of hours that they are regularly scheduled to work.Tuition RefundCertain classes of full-time employees may receive reimbursement for fees associated with pre-approved, job related course work completed satisfactorily.VacationBased on years of county service, regular, full-time employees earn vacation time at the following rates:0 to 5 years4.0 hours per pay period 6 to 10 years4.5 hours per pay period 11 to 15 years5.0 hours per pay period 16 to 20 years5.5 hours per pay period 21 plus years6.0 hours per pay periodPart-time employees earn vacation leave on a pro-rated basis.Workers' CompensationThe county provides all employees workers' compensation coverage with benefits in accordance with state statute, if the employee sustains an injury out of, or in the course of work.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        How many years of election experience do you have?
        
        
                0 to 3 years
                4 to 7 years
                8 to 10 years
                11+ years
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        How many years of supervisory experience do you have?
        
        
                0 to 3 years
                4 to 7 years
                8 to 10 years
                11+ years
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        How many people have you supervised?
        
        
                0 to 5
                6 to 10
                11 to 15
                16 or more
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Do you have any family members currently employed by Travis County?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        If yes, who is the family member, relationship, and in what Travis County office?
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        