=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Service Manager
Salary: $75,424.96 - $120,484.52 YEAR
Location: 80120, CO, CO, 80120
Employer: Arapahoe County
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2025-05-22
Job Type: Full-time
Job Number: 06177
Department: Clerk and Recorder's Office
Division: Elections
Opening Date: 05/23/2025
Closing Date: 6/15/2025 11:59 PM Mountain

BENEFITS:
  • Medical, Dental, and Vision Insurance
  • Life and Supplemental Life Insurance
  • Short and Long Term Disability
  • Mandatory Pension Plan
  • Deferred Compensation Plan
  • Pre-paid Legal Services
  • Vacation and Sick Leaves
  • Holiday pay
  • Training and Educational Reimbursement Opportunities

For a more detailed listing of our benefit programs, click on the MENU link on the left and then Benefits Summary.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

The Election Service Manager performs managerial level administrative, supervisory, and professional work in carrying out a comprehensive public facing service operation. This position specifically supervises the Election Services team, which includes voter service polling center logistics, election/ballot security, ballot processing and election systems maintenance.

Manages the daily operation of the Election Service team which may include but is not limited to, legislative guidance, budget guidance, business process implementation, ballot coordination, polling center coordination, election security, inventory management-maintenance, coordination with external and internal stakeholders, and overseeing staff.
Manages, and ensures statutory compliance of election service functions including ballot creation, ballot auditing, ballot security, ballot scanning-adjudication, ballot tabulation-reconciliation, record retention-destruction, facility security, polling center logistics, ADA accessibility, election night reporting and any and all services relevant to polling centers and election ballot processing.
Serves as the project manager and primary point of contact for warehouse security/maintenance vendors, polling center logistics, and all services relevant to the polling center operation and election equipment.
Responsible for the evaluations of the Election Services team as directed by the Election Director.
Informs the Election Director on the status of projects and/or changes within Election Services.
Attends association and professional meetings to enhance and maintain knowledge of trends and developments in elections, as determined necessary by the Election Director, Deputy Clerk and Recorder and/or Clerk and Recorder.
Technical expert of Election Services team software, business processes, statutes, rules and regulations.
Ballot Creation-Processing and polling center subject matter expert.
Responsible for overall timekeeping and leave within the Election Services team.

Skills, Abilities and Competencies:
Leadership-Creates a vision or goal and communicates it in a way that motivates others to implement
Organized - Can marshal resources (people, funding, material, and support) to get things done
Service First - Improve customer experience; enhance quality of life; improve trust in government
Teamwork - Cooperates with others to achieve goals and overall work objectives
Adaptability - Responds to changing circumstances by being innovative and altering behavior

Behavioral Competencies:
Accountability 
Accessibility 
Inclusivity 
Integrity

Education and Experience:

Any equivalent combination of education and work experience that satisfy the requirements of the job;
At least 5 years of relevant experience; and/or
A bachelor’s degree in public administration, Organizational Leadership, or related field

Preferred Qualifications:
Any Continued Education and/or relevant Certifications.
Bilingual and/or American Sign Language
At least 3 years of Election experience.
At least 5 years of Government experience.
At least 5 years of supervisory/management experience.

Pre-Employment Additional Requirements:

Must successfully pass pre-employment testing which includes an acceptable motor vehicle record (MVR) and background check.
Security clearance required: will require fingerprinting and a Colorado Bureau of Investigation (CBI) background check

Post-Employment Requirements:
Active participation in the Colorado County Clerk Association
Must be able to work nights and weekends based on business need
Work locations and facilities are subject to change based on business need

WORK ENVIRONMENT:
Work is generally confined to a standard office environment.
Hybrid work opportunities available per approval.
PHYSICAL DEMANDS:
The following are some of the physical demands commonly associated with this position.
Spends 30% of the time sitting and 70% of the time either upright or walking.
Occasionally lifts, carries, pulls or pushes up to 50 lbs.
Occasionally uses cart, dolly, or other equipment to carry in excess of 50 lbs.
Occasionally climbs, stoops, kneels, balances, reaches, crawls and crouches while performing office or work duties.
Verbal and auditory capacity enabling constant interpersonal communication through automated devices, such as telephones, radios, and similar; and in public meetings and personal interactions.
Constant use of eye, hand and finger coordination enabling the use of automated office machinery or equipment.
Visual capacity enabling constant use of computer or other work related equipment.
Definitions:
Occasionally: Activity exists less than 1/3 of the time.
Frequently: Activity exists between 1/3 and 2/3 of the time.
Constantly: Activity exists more than 2/3 of the time.

 

* Arapahoe County does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, disability, genetic information, sexual orientation or any other status protected under the law. It is our intention that all qualified applicants be given equal opportunity in any term, condition, or privilege of employment and that selection decisions are based on job-related factors. Arapahoe County is committed to making employment accessible to persons with disabilities.

** In accordance with Senate Bill 23-058, applicants understand that Arapahoe County will not request or require the applicant to include their age, date of birth, or date of attendance/graduation date on the initial application. Applicants understand that Arapahoe County can request or require an individual to provide documentation including copies of certification, transcripts, and other materials created by a third party. The applicant understands that the applicant can redact, if they so choose, information that identifies age, date of birth, or dates of attendance/graduation from an educational institution on those requested/required certification, transcripts and other materials created by a third party. 

Toll Free Applicant Technical Support:  If you experience technical difficulty with the NEOGOV system (i.e. uploading or attaching documents to your online application), call NEOGOV technical support at 855-524-5627.  Helpful hints: if you are having difficulty uploading or attaching documents to your application, first, ensure your documents are PDF or Microsoft Word files, and second, close the document before you attempt uploading (attaching) it. 

As a Regular Full-Time employee at Arapahoe County Government, you are eligible for benefits such as:	Medical, Dental, and Vision Insurance	Life and Supplemental Life Insurance	Short and Long Term Disability	Mandatory Pension Plan	Deferred Compensation Plan	Pre-paid Legal Services	Vacation and Sick Leaves	Holiday pay	Training and Educational Reimbursement OpportunitiesFor a more detailed listing of our benefit programs, click on the MENU link on the left and then Benefits Summary.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Please choose the response that best describes your educational background.
        
        
                High School Diploma or GED
                Some College
                Associate Degree
                Bachelor's Degree
                Master's Degree
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Do you hold a degree in public administration, organizational leadership, or a related field?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Do you have any continued education or relevant certificates?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        If you answered yes to the previous question, please list your continued education and/or relevant certificates.
        
        
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Please choose the best answer that describes your relevant work experience.
        
        
                Less than 3 years of experience
                3 years to less than 5 years experience
                5 years to less than 7 years of experience
                7 years to less than 9 years of experience
                9 or more years of experience
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Please explain in detail your relevant experience.
        
        
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Please choose the best answer that describes your Election experience.
        
        
                Less than 1 year of experience
                1 year to less than 2 years experience
                2 years to less than 3 years of experience
                3 years to less than 4 years of experience
                4 years to less than 5 years of experience
                5 or more years of experience
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Please give a description in detail of your experience working in Elections.
        
        
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        Please choose the best answer that describes your experience in government.
        
        
                Less than 1 year of experience
                1 year to less than 2 years experience
                2 years to less than 3 years of experience
                3 years to less than 4 years of experience
                4 years to less than 5 years of experience
                5 or more years of experience
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        Please choose the best answer that describes your supervisory/management experience.
        
        
                Less than 1 year of experience
                1 year to less than 2 years experience
                2 years to less than 3 years of experience
                3 years to less than 4 years of experience
                4 years to less than 5 years of experience
                5 or more years of experience
        
    


    
        

11

    

    
        This position has direct responsibility and supervision of the entire Election Service Team. Please describe in detail your previous supervisory experience as it relates directly to this position. Specifically, describe your experience with writing and delivering annual performance reviews for direct reports, monitoring work performance, writing and delivering corrective action documentation, selection/hiring/onboarding, coaching and mentoring, etc.
        
        
        
    


    
        

12

    

    
        Are you bilingual and/or fluent in American Sign Language?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

13

    

    
        Do you have a current, valid driver's license?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

14

    

    
        Have you received eight or more points within the past twelve months or twelve or more points within the past twenty-four months against your driving record?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

15

    

    
        How many moving traffic violations have you been cited for in the past two years?
        
        
                Less than 3 violations
                3 or 4 violations
                5 or more violations
        
    


    
        

16

    

    
        In the past three years, have you had your driver's license revoked or suspended?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        