=== JOB DETAILS ===

Salary: $88,949.76 - $108,118.92 Annually
Location: Martinez, CA
Job Type: Permanent Full-Time
Job Number: EBSA-2016A
Department: Clerk - Recorder
Opening Date: 11/21/2016
Closing Date: 12/30/2016 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Exempt
Bargaining Unit: ZA

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Bargaining Unit: Local 21 - Supervisory Management

Contra Costa County's Clerk-Recorder's office is offering an excellent career opportunity for individuals interested in an Election Services Manager Position for their downtown Martinez location. This management position reports to the Assistant Registrar in the Elections Division of the Clerk-Recorder's Office and acts in the place of the Assistant Registrar during his/her absence. This position is responsible for assisting the Assistant Registrar in planning, organizing and directing the day to day activities of the Elections Division; the development, establishment, implementation and evaluation of County elections policies and procedures according to Election and Government Codes, applicable laws, rules, procedures, court cases, regulations and ordinances that affect the preparation and conduct of elections and registration of voters.
 
The ideal candidate will possess knowledge and understanding of the election process, cycle and Election law as well as knowledge and understanding of the interrelationships of each unit of the Election Department.  This classification will supervise Elections Division administrative, technical and supervisory staff.  Strong management and administrative skills are required as the incumbent will have primary responsibility for day-to-day direction and coordination of the Election Division activities. Excellent Interpersonal skills are required, as the incumbent will interface with staff on all levels as well as county officials, news media, and the public.

The employment list established from this examination may remain in effect for six (6) months.

Manages the daily operations of functional teams in the Elections Division
Ensures the accuracy, timeliness and quality of division work through quality checks and quality management practices
Plans and executes project plans for specific elections and special projects
Advises and trains supervisory staff in effective supervisory techniques and resolving personnel issues
Conducts employee training in the regulations, policies and procedures of the Elections Division, and appropriate state and federal codes
Acts as a special project coordinator
Manages sample and official ballot production, printing, and mailing
Responds to written and oral inquiries from internal and external sources
Assists in estimating election costs and reviews billings to various jurisdictions
Evaluates State mandate reimbursement claims
Manages the development, conduct, and evaluation of election training programs
Participates in the coordination of election activities with other County agencies, cities, schools, special districts, and the State of California
Explains elections procedures and requirements to prospective candidates for public office; city, county and state officials; to the media and to the general public
Represents the Elections Division before various boards, commissions, committees, public agencies and statewide professional associations
Acts for the Assistant County Registrar in his or her absence

License Required:   Possession of a valid California Motor Vehicle Operator's License. Out of state Motor Vehicle Operator's license will be accepted during the application process.
 
Education: Possession of a Bachelor's Degree from an accredited college or university with a major in business, public administration, or a closely related field.
 
Experience: Three (3) years of full-time, (or the equivalent of full-time), experience performing administrative, budgetary, and personnel, duties; two (2) years must have been performing duties related to elections and at least one (1) year must have been in a supervisory capacity.
 
Substitution for Experience: A Master's degree in business, public administration, or closely related field may substitute for one (1) year of the required experience.
 
Substitution for Education: Possession of the California Professional Election Administrator Credential Program (CalPEAC) credential administered by the California Association of Clerks and Election Officials (CACEO); OR possession of the Certified Elections/Registration Administrator Certification (CERA) certification from the National Elections Center may be substituted for one (1) year of the required education.
 
Additional qualifying experience of the type described above may be substituted for the required education on a year for year basis, up to a maximum of two (2) years.  No substitution is allowed for the required supervisory experience.  
 

 

Application Filing:  All applicants, including County employees, are to apply on-line at www.cccounty.us/hr, and attach the required information as indicated on the job announcement by the final filing date listed above. All applicants must clearly demonstrate that they meet the minimum qualifications provided on the job announcement. Resumes may not be substituted for the official County application.  Paper, faxed, or late applications will not be accepted. To view the typical tasks, knowledge, skills, and abilities associated with this position, please visit our website to see the detailed job description.
  
Application Evaluation:Depending on the number of applications received, an Application Evaluation Board may be convened to evaluate and select the best-qualified candidates for invitation to the next phase of the examination.
 
Oral Interview:  An oral interview will be conducted by a Qualifications Appraisal Board in Martinez, CA. The Board will evaluate candidates in job-related areas. Candidates must receive a rating of at least 70 from a majority of the Board members to be ranked on the employment list. (Weighted 100%)

As part of the application process, an applicant may be required to fill out a Conviction History form. Please note that the Conviction History form should only be submitted when requested.

The Human Resources Department may change the examination steps noted above in accordance with the Personnel Management Regulations and accepted selection practices.


CONTRA COSTA COUNTY IS AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
 

To find more information on Benefits offered by Contra Costa County, please go to https://www.contracosta.ca.gov/1343/Employee-Benefits


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        The supplemental questionnaire is part of the application process. The purpose of the questionnaire is to provide applicants the opportunity to elaborate on their qualifications. Your responses to the questionnaire will be used to evaluate your relevant experience to determine which applicants will be invited to participate in a competitive oral examination.

Answer the questions below and submit your responses with your on-line application. Although you may submit a resume to further describe your qualifications or additional information, such items may not be substituted in lieu of the supplemental questionnaire. An incomplete supplemental questionnaire will result in disqualification. Do not answer any question by indicating "see attached resume."

Experience:For questions #4-8 below, please identify: 
•	Years and Months of Experience 
•	Percentage (%) time spent supporting this function 
•	Employer's name 
•	Official work title
•	Number of staff supervised and their classifications 

If your experience does not apply to any given question, indicate "N/A".

An application submitted without the supplemental questionnaire is considered incomplete and will therefore be disqualified.
        
        
                N/A
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        I possess a Bachelor's Degree in:
        
        
                Business Administration
                Public Administration
                Other closely related field
                No, I do not possess a Bachelor's Degree.
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        If you marked "Other closely related field", specify the major. If you did not mark "Other", enter "N/A."
        
        
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Describe your experience in the field of elections and how it relates to your qualifications for this position.
        
        
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Describe your experience as a supervisor to include the number and type of staff supervised, and the type and scope of work performed.
        
        
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Describe your experience performing administrative, budgetary, and personnel duties.
        
        
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Describe your experience in budget development and management, purchasing and procurement, evaluating team and individual performance, and staffing and hiring.  Specify your role and scope of each activity, (i.e. size of budget, amount of contract, etc.)
        
        
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Describe your experience planning and managing projects.  Provide an example which includes a description of the project, its duration, its significance, and your role in the planning and project management.
        
        
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        Summarize why and how your experience, education and abilities qualify you for this position.
        
        
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        I certify that I meet the announced requirements for this examination and understand that I will be eliminated at any stage in such examination if it develops that, in fact I do not meet them. I further certify that all statements made in this supplemental questionnaire and the application is true and I agree and understand that misstatements or omissions of material facts will cause forfeiture of my rights to employment with Contra Costa County.
        
        
                Yes
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        