=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Director of Voter Services
Salary: $119,043.06 - $119,043.06 YEAR
Location: Government Services Center - Westtown, PA, PA, 19380
Employer: County of Chester
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2026-03-26
Job Type: Full Time, Exempt
Job Number: 04412
Department: Voter Services
Division: Voter Services
Opening Date: 03/27/2026
Closing Date: Continuous
Weekly Hours: 40
Shift: 8:00am-5:00pm

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

The Director of Voter Services plans, organizes, supervises, and manages the activities of voter registration, campaign finance, and elections for the County of Chester in compliance with all federal, state, county, and local laws.

Election operations 


Direct, manage and administer the operations and activities of the department in conformance with the election laws and regulations.
Direct and organize the holding of elections, maintaining integrity in the election process and ensuring that all mandated deadlines are met.
Compile and verify voter lists from official registration records, official statements of votes, statistical listings, and other data.
Maintain county precinct boundaries and maps. 
Direct and organize the preparation and printing of specimen, absentee and official ballots.
Prepare instruction manuals and conduct classes.
Oversee the maintenance and updating of systems, technology, and voter equipment.
Department leadership and administration 

Supervise, organize, and direct the work of election personnel; train, assign, direct and inspect the work of employees; evaluate employee performance; coach and counsel staff; develop staff schedules.
Supervise temporary election workers and provide training regarding election procedure and the operation of (electronic) election equipment. 
Provide oversight of departmental onboarding and training activities
Maintain the department’s yearly budget that ranges between $2,000,000 - $4,000,000. 
Maintain the department’s Department of State Act 88 yearly grant, including filing of all required reports.
Prepare and justify departmental budget requests and ensure expenditures are within budgetary constraints.
Confer with and report to the Board of Elections on voter registration and elections
Collaborate with Commissioners’ Office and other County departments that support election operations 
Review and draft recommendations for updates and changes to the policies and procedures connected to the operations and activities of the department
Review current and proposed legislative issues.
Consult with County Solicitor, Department of State, and County Directors of Elections, testifying in court cases, as needed.
Communications and public engagement

Attend meetings and provide information verbally and written to voters, candidates, public officials, and the press.
Organize the preparation and publication of official election information.
Attend and participate in meetings, conferences, and seminars; stay abreast of developments and legislative changes affecting elections and voter registration.
Represent the department at community and board meetings involving election matters.
Act as a resource for employee questions regarding client or citizen issues, concerns, policies, etc.
Other

Perform other duties, tasks and special projects, as required.

Bachelor’s degree in Political Science, Public Administration or related field from an accredited college or university, or equivalent combination of education and experience in a related role.
Strong knowledge of federal and Pennsylvania election and voter registration laws
Experience managing election operations and voter registration
Experience in a similar leadership role, team management, or supervisory capacity
Strong budget management skills.
Ability to make sound decisions and choices.
Able to deal tactfully with difficult people.
Excellent verbal and written communication skills.
Exceptional ability to assess needs and priorities.
Excellent organizational skills.
Strong interpersonal skills.
Exceptional ability to communicate effectively at all levels.
Accurate and detail oriented.
Ability to make sound decisions and choices.
Demonstrates honesty and integrity.
A valid driver’s license is required.
Preferred Skills, Knowledge & Experience:

Master’s degree from an accredited college or university.
Strong time management, prioritization, and organizational skills.
Strong people skills, with the ability to lead and train others.
Excellent ability to analyze complex issues.
Strong ability to plan, organize and coordinate work.
Strong ability to think strategically.
General understanding of human resources guidelines.
Ability to define problems, collect data, establish facts, and draw valid conclusions.
Strong project management skills.
Ability to handle multiple tasks simultaneously.
Ability to interface effectively with all levels of county management.

Relevant background checks, clearances, physicals, drug tests, and any other assessments or evaluations will be conducted after an offer of employment is given per County policy.

Computer Skills:
To perform this job successfully, an individual should have:


Basic Word skills
Intermediate Excel skills
Intermediate Access skills
Basic Outlook skills (Email and Calendar)
Basic Internet skills
Physical Demands:
While performing the duties of this position, employee is frequently required to stand, walk, sit, talk or hear, and bend at the waist while working.  Occasionally, employee will need to climb stairs or ladders, work while on a ladder, push or lift up to 10 pounds, and drive a vehicle to and from locations.
There are no special vision requirements for this position.
Work Environment:

The work environment is quiet to moderate. 
Will be working with the public approximately 20% of the time.
Other:

During voting season, there will be a need to work extended hours.
Ability to work extended hours approximately 40% of the year.
This position requires professionalism.
May require the use of a private vehicle.



The County of Chester offers comprehensive benefits to our employees. Read more about our Benefits here.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        What is your highest level of education?
        
        
                No formal Education
                High School Diploma or GED
                Associates Degree
                Bachelors Degree
                Masters Degree
                Doctorate or higher (includes Juris Doctorate and Medical Doctorate)
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Do you have a current and valid driver's license?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        