=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: State Division Administrator 17 - Elections Operations Administrator
Salary: $106,679.00 - $145,032.00 YEAR
Location: Lansing, MI, MI, 48909
Employer: State of Michigan
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2020-08-23
Job Type: Permanent Full Time
Job Number: 2301-20-EL329
Department: Department of State
Opening Date: 08/24/2020
Closing Date: 9/9/2020 11:59 PM Eastern
Bargaining Unit: NON-EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTED EMPLOYEE (NERE)

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===



POSITION DUTIES - This position is responsible for assisting the Director in the overall management and supervision of the activities performed in the Bureau of Elections. This position is also responsible for providing supervision to the Bureau's teams. These  responsibilities include leadership and direction to professional staff, as well as planning, organizing, direction, and evaluation of projects and high priority initiatives. This position also provides internal Bureau-wide coordination and communication with outside advisory groups, vendors, and other agency and Departmental staff; coordination of major purchasing processes; and oversight and monitoring of the Bureau budget including Help America Vote Act (HAVA) federal grant expenditures.

APPOINTMENT TYPE/BENEFITS - This position is Full-Time. Therefore, you would be eligible to participate in the benefits offered by the state. 

Position Description (Download PDF reader)  (Download PDF reader)

MDOSJOBS

 

Education
Possession of a bachelor's degree in any major.

Experience
Two years of experience as a professional manager or program/staff specialist, or equivalent experience.

Education level typically acquired through completion of high school and three years of
safety and regulatory or law enforcement experience at the 14 level; or, two years of
safety and regulatory or law enforcement experience at the 15 level, may be substituted
for the education and experience requirements.

Accommodations
If you require a reasonable accommodation to participate in the application or selection processes, please contact the ADA coordinator (Download PDF reader) for the agency that posted this position vacancy.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        STDIVADM - Do you possess one of the following?

A bachelor's degree or higher in any major AND at least two years of post-degree experience as a professional manager or program/staff specialist.  If so, please attach a copy of your official college transcripts. 

OR 

At least one year of professional experience in the state classified service AND at least two years of experience as a professional manager or program/staff specialist

OR

at least an educational level typically acquired through the completion of high school AND at least three years of safety and regulatory or law enforcement experience at the 14 level; or at least two years of safety and regulatory or law enforcement experience at the 15 level.
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Are you related to anyone working at the Department of State (Secretary of State)?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        If you answered "Yes" to question #2 please list the name of each relative. If you answered "No" to question #2, please enter "none".
        
        
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        If you qualify based on your education, as listed in the alternate education and experience section, did you attach your "official" college transcripts (unofficial transcripts are not acceptable)?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Do you have at least five years of professional experience in elections administration or an election-related field?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        How many years experience do you have in election programs?
        
        
                None
                Less than 5 years of experience
                5-10 years of experience
                More than 10 years of experience
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have in campaign finance disclosure?
        
        
                None
                Less than 5 years of experience
                5-10 years of experience
                More than 10 years of experience
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have coordinating with a legislature?
        
        
                None
                Less than 5 years experience
                5-10 years of experience
                More than 10 years of experience
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        Describe your experience working with an executive level leader. If you do not possess this experience, please enter "N/A."
        
        
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        Do you have experience in election law/code?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

11

    

    
        If you answered "yes" to question #10, please describe your experience in election law/code. If you do not possess this experience please enter "N/A."
        
        
        
    


    
        

12

    

    
        Describe your experience working with state and local officials. If you do not possess this experience, please enter "N/A."
        
        
        
    


    
        

13

    

    
        Describe your experience in creating election policy and procedures. If you do not possess this experience, please enter"N/A."
        
        
        
    


    
        

14

    

    
        Describe your experience managing staff; in particular, staff with expertise in elections. If you do not possess this experience, please enter "N/A."
        
        
        
    


    
        

15

    

    
        Describe your experience managing projects and determining resource allocation across multiple projects. If you do not possess this experience, please enter "N/A."
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        