=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Chief Deputy Supervisor (Information Systems)
Salary: $68,702.40 - $68,702.40 YEAR
Location: Alachua County, FL, FL, 32602-2877
Employer: Alachua County
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2022-02-10
Job Type: Full-Time
Job Number: FY22-11615
Department: Supervisor of Elections
Opening Date: 02/11/2022
Closing Date: 3/8/2022 11:59 PM Eastern

BENEFITS:
  • Medical/Health Insurance
  • Employee Life Insurance
  • Florida Retirement System
  • Employee Assistance Program

Optional Benefits
Dental Insurance      Vision Insurance      Supplemental & Dependent Life Insurance      Deferred Retirement Program      Flexible Spending Accounts      Roth IRA      Tuition Assistance Program      Computer Purchase Program
NOTE: For detailed information regarding available benefits click here.
You may also view Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) regarding benefits.
•FLORIDA RETIREMENT SYSTEM (FRS)
The Florida Retirement System is a retirement plan designed to provide an income to a vested employee and his/her family when the employee retires, becomes partially or totally disabled, or dies prior to retirement.  A defined benefit or defined contribution option may be chosen by the employee.
•HOLIDAYS Holidays are as follows:
New Years Day      Martin Luther King Day      Memorial Day      Independence Day      Labor Day      Veterans’ Day      Thanksgiving Day      Friday following Thanksgiving      Christmas Day
Pay periods are every two weeks, Monday through Sunday. Payday is Friday.  Contact Human Resources for more information.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Bachelor's degree with major course work in elections systems, information systems, computer science,  or a related field, with three years progressively responsible experience in elections or other public administration field; or any equivalent combination of related training and experience. Successful completion of a criminal history background investigation is required prior to employment. 

This is responsible supervisory and administrative work maintaining voter registration records and the research and implementation of computer applications for the Alachua County Supervisor of Elections Office.

An employee assigned to this class is responsible for planning, coordinating and directing technical staff in the performance of tasks within the framework of existing laws, rules and regulations as assigned by the Supervisor of Elections.

Work is performed under the general direction of Supervisor of Elections and is reviewed through conferences, reports and observation of results obtained.

ESSENTIAL JOB FUNCTIONS

Maintains voter registration records; prepares reports needed under present law, including letters required to be mailed.

Supervises and coordinates the activities of subordinate employees including determining work procedures and schedules; issuing instructions and assigning duties; reviewing work; recommending personnel actions; conducting performance reviews; and conducting office training and orientation.

Serves as liaison with Florida Department of State Cybersecurity Office, Alachua County Information Services and other computer services providers, including private vendors.

Provides analysis of needs and solutions for, and approves changes to the computer systems supporting the Elections Office.

Oversees implementation of continually evolving technologies and assists with the research for the purchase of software, hardware and elections equipment.

Researches, recommends and implements the use of new computer equipment and other records storage and retrieval technologies, and provides a forward looking appraisal of information system needs.

Oversees all special IT projects and troubleshoots IT issues with Alachua County Information Services for use on software applications and hardware systems.

Maintains IT security and protocols; develops, maintains and updates Election Security Procedures as required by the Department of State in collaboration with senior staff.

Implements an ongoing risk assessment program targeting information security in partnership with the Department of State Cybersecurity Office

Oversees ballot design, creation and programming; responsible for determining and ordering ballots along with SOE and Assistant SOE, and assists with ballot packing.

Responsible for programming and testing of high-speed scanners.

Responsible for tabulation of early voting, vote-by-mail and Election Day results. Oversees election night and canvassing board reporting. Responsible for post-election processing of logs and ballot images.

Responsible for maintenance of the voter registration database and user permissions; maintains and creates elections database in the Elections Management System and Servers.

Creates and programs election data on memory cards for Early Voting and Election Day equipment; creates Early Voting and Election Day activators.

Supervises the collection, compilation and retrieval of all office records, including preparations of data analysis and statistical reports for outside entities.

Coordinates the required poll workers training on specialized voting equipment and ensures that staff possesses a functional understanding of all special elections technologies.

Provides training and materials for electronic poll book operators; provides training and materials for Early Voting printing system for ballot distributors.

Coordinates equipment diagnostics and programming with Operations and verifies voting machines are prepared for Logic & Accuracy testing.

Assists the public on the phone and in person; provides information about elections and voter registration.

Oversees procedures requiring specialized equipment and ensures that they are only used by properly trained staff.

Coordinates with staff and vendors to maintain security measures for the Supervisor of Elections website.

Assumes primary responsibility for the integrity of the GIS database, and preparation of maps, precinct lines and boundaries from the system.

Performs related tasks as deemed necessary by the Supervisor of Elections.

NOTE: These examples are intended only as illustrations of the various kinds of work performed in positions allocated to this class. The omission of specific statements of duties does not exclude them from the position if the work is similar, related or a logical assignment to the position.


KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS AND ABILITIES

Thorough knowledge of applicable election law requirements.

Considerable knowledge of data gathering and reporting techniques.

Considerable knowledge of web design technique and languages. 

Knowledge of management information systems design.

Knowledge of GIS system maintenance, precinct lines, boundaries and map preparation.

Ability to plan, schedule and coordinate projects and programs.

Ability to effectively supervise and coordinate the activities of subordinate employees.

Ability to collect data and analyze facts and statistical information.

Ability to work independently to solve problems and make sound decisions based on available information.

Ability to communicate effectively, both orally and in writing.

Ability to provide technical guidance, training and resources to employees and users.

Ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships with other State and County departments, industry representatives, other outside agencies and the general public as well as supervisors and co-workers.

PHYSICAL DEMANDS: The physical demands described here are representative of those that must be met by an employee to successfully perform the essential functions of this job. Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions.

While performing the duties of this job, the employee is occasionally required to stand; walk; sit; talk or hear, and use hands to finger, handle or feel.

The employee must occasionally lift and/or move up to 25 pounds.

WORK ENVIRONMENT: The work environment characteristics described here are representative of those an employee encounters while performing the essential functions of this job. Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions.

The noise level in the work environment is usually moderate.

Alachua County Supervisor of Elections offers a competitive benefit program. We believe that if we expect our employees to support us, we must first support the health and financial well-being of our employees and their families, now and as they plan for their future.Employer-Contributed Benefits    Medical/Health Insurance      Employee Life Insurance      Florida Retirement System      Employee Assistance ProgramOptional Benefits    Dental Insurance      Vision Insurance      Supplemental & Dependent Life Insurance      Deferred Retirement Program      Flexible Spending Accounts      Roth IRA      Tuition Assistance Program      Computer Purchase ProgramNOTE: For detailed information regarding available benefits click here.You may also view Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) regarding benefits.•FLORIDA RETIREMENT SYSTEM (FRS) The Florida Retirement System is a retirement plan designed to provide an income to a vested employee and his/her family when the employee retires, becomes partially or totally disabled, or dies prior to retirement.  A defined benefit or defined contribution option may be chosen by the employee.•HOLIDAYS Holidays are as follows:    New Years Day      Martin Luther King Day      Memorial Day      Independence Day      Labor Day      Veterans’ Day      Thanksgiving Day      Friday following Thanksgiving      Christmas Day    Pay periods are every two weeks, Monday through Sunday. Payday is Friday.  Contact Human Resources for more information.  