=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Director of Operations
Salary: $56,784.00 - $56,784.00 YEAR
Location: Alachua County, FL, FL, 32602-2877
Employer: Alachua County
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2022-02-03
Job Type: Full-Time
Job Number: FY22-11579
Department: Supervisor of Elections
Opening Date: 02/04/2022
Closing Date: 3/4/2022 11:59 PM Eastern

BENEFITS:
  • Medical/Health Insurance
  • Employee Life Insurance
  • Florida Retirement System
  • Employee Assistance Program

Optional Benefits
Dental Insurance      Vision Insurance      Supplemental & Dependent Life Insurance      Deferred Retirement Program      Flexible Spending Accounts      Roth IRA      Tuition Assistance Program      Computer Purchase Program
NOTE: For detailed information regarding available benefits click here.
You may also view Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) regarding benefits.
•FLORIDA RETIREMENT SYSTEM (FRS)
The Florida Retirement System is a retirement plan designed to provide an income to a vested employee and his/her family when the employee retires, becomes partially or totally disabled, or dies prior to retirement.  A defined benefit or defined contribution option may be chosen by the employee.
•HOLIDAYS Holidays are as follows:
New Years Day      Martin Luther King Day      Memorial Day      Independence Day      Labor Day      Veterans’ Day      Thanksgiving Day      Friday following Thanksgiving      Christmas Day
Pay periods are every two weeks, Monday through Sunday. Payday is Friday.  Contact Human Resources for more information.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Bachelor's degree with major course work in business administration, public administration, information technology or a related field; or any equivalent combination of related training and experience. Must possess a valid State of Florida Driver's License. A valid Florida Driver License is required and a Motor Vehicle Record that meets the requirements of Alachua County policy # 6-7; Motor Vehicle Records will be reviewed prior to employment. If in the past 24-month period, the record shows more than 3 moving traffic violations, and/or a conviction/pending charge for driving under the influence, the minimum qualifications are not met for the position.

Acceptable Education and Experience: (Total 4 years)
Bachelor degree (4) =total 4 years
or
Associate degree (2) plus (2) years of related experience (such as experience with operation of voting equipment) =total 4 years
or
High School diploma or equivalent and (4) years of related experience (such as experience with operation of voting equipment) = total 4 years

This is responsible managerial/technical work planning, organizing, directing and supervising day-to-day operational activities of the Supervisor of Elections Operations Center and Training Center.  This also includes maintaining, servicing, and repairing computerized voting and tabulation equipment for the Alachua County Supervisor of Elections Office.  Reports directly to the Supervisor of Elections.

An employee assigned to this classification is responsible for ensuring that the voting and tabulation machines and related computerized equipment are in good working order for each election. An employee in this classification is also responsible for training and coordinating work assignments for assigned staff as well as maintaining and scheduling the Training Center activities.

Work is performed under the general direction of a higher level supervisor and is reviewed through conferences, reports and observation of results obtained.

ESSENTIAL JOB FUNCTIONS
 

Responsible for preventive maintenance, storage, charging, repairs and improvements for all voting and tabulation equipment.

Responsible for maintaining elections voting booths, electronic poll books, ballot printers and supplies required in all polling places.

Assists the Supervisor of Elections with ballot coordination and voting equipment testing. 

Plans and carries out a preventative maintenance program for computerized voting and tabulation equipment.
 
Identifies and inspects potential polling locations with the Supervisor of Elections to determine alternative facilities for upcoming elections.

Programs vote tabulation equipment for modems and installs modern lines and tests them for proper functioning. May be required to work on telephone jack, as the need arises.

Supervises and coordinates the activities of employees including determining work procedures and schedules; issuing instructions and assigning duties; reviewing work; recommending personnel actions; conducting performance reviews; and conducting departmental training and orientation.

Performs records management duties, such as preparing requests for destruction of obsolete records to the State Division of Library and Information Services in accordance with Florida Election Laws, Florida State Statutes, General Records Schedule GS1-SL for State and Local Governments, and General Records Schedule GS3 for Elections Records.

Inspects and prepares precinct facilities and precincts' supplies to insure easy access for voters and compliance with federal laws, Florida election laws and statutes.

Assigns, stores, maintains, updates and deploys cell phones, jetpacks, battery backups, and many smaller assets for elections to ensure communication with headquarters.
 
Trains poll workers in the preparation and use of computerized voting and tabulation equipment.

Manages and supervises the preparation and delivery of election supplies and assets for deployment to each Alachua County polling precinct and early voting sites.
 
Maintains Election Operation Center inventory asset database.

Determines needs and orders supplies and parts for maintenance of computerized voting equipment.

Drives a County and/or personal vehicle in order to perform required responsibilities for the Supervisor of Elections.

Performs related duties as required.
 
NOTE: These examples are intended only as illustrations of the various kinds of work performed in positions allocated to this class. The omission of specific statements of duties does not exclude them from the position if the work is similar, related or a logical assignment to the position.

KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS AND ABILITIES
 
Considerable knowledge of the methods of preventative maintenance, repair and safe handling of voting equipment.

Knowledge of election laws, rules and regulations.

Knowledge of Alachua County roads in order to deliver voting machines in a minimum amount of time.

Knowledge of computerized voting equipment to include use of modems and connectivity with available telephone jacks.

Knowledge of records management.

Skill in the use of hand and power tools.

Skill in carpentry to build and maintain pallets, shelving and other items.

Ability to communicate effectively, both orally and in writing.

Ability to instruct and train volunteers and other employees.

Ability to prepare memoranda and reports.
 
Ability to drive a County vehicle such as a box truck and/or a cargo van as well as a personal vehicle in a safe manner and in accordance with laws.

Ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships with outside agencies, the general public and co-workers.
 
PHYSICAL DEMANDS: The physical demands described here are representative of those that must be met by an employee to successfully perform the essential functions of this job. Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions.

While performing the duties of this job, the employee is regularly required to stand; walk; use hands to finger, handle or feel, and reach with hands and arms. The employee is frequently required to sit; talk or hear; climb or balance, and stoop, kneel, crouch or crawl.

The employee must occasionally lift and/or move up to 100 pounds. Specific vision abilities required by this job include distance vision and peripheral vision.

WORK ENVIRONMENT: The work environment characteristics described here are representative of those an employee encounters while performing the essential functions of this job. Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions.

While performing the duties of this job, the employee is occasionally exposed to outdoor weather conditions; extreme cold (non-weather), and extreme heat (non-weather).

The noise level in the work environment is usually moderate.

Alachua County Supervisor of Elections offers a competitive benefit program. We believe that if we expect our employees to support us, we must first support the health and financial well-being of our employees and their families, now and as they plan for their future.Employer-Contributed Benefits    Medical/Health Insurance      Employee Life Insurance      Florida Retirement System      Employee Assistance ProgramOptional Benefits    Dental Insurance      Vision Insurance      Supplemental & Dependent Life Insurance      Deferred Retirement Program      Flexible Spending Accounts      Roth IRA      Tuition Assistance Program      Computer Purchase ProgramNOTE: For detailed information regarding available benefits click here.You may also view Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) regarding benefits.•FLORIDA RETIREMENT SYSTEM (FRS) The Florida Retirement System is a retirement plan designed to provide an income to a vested employee and his/her family when the employee retires, becomes partially or totally disabled, or dies prior to retirement.  A defined benefit or defined contribution option may be chosen by the employee.•HOLIDAYS Holidays are as follows:    New Years Day      Martin Luther King Day      Memorial Day      Independence Day      Labor Day      Veterans’ Day      Thanksgiving Day      Friday following Thanksgiving      Christmas Day    Pay periods are every two weeks, Monday through Sunday. Payday is Friday.  Contact Human Resources for more information.  