=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Technician
Salary: $40,560.00 - $57,288.00 YEAR
Location: Boulder County, CO, CO, 80302
Employer: Boulder County
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2022-02-22
Job Type: Full-time
Job Number: 4316(AT2)
Department: Clerk and Recorders Office
Division: CLK Elections
Opening Date: 02/23/2022
Closing Date: 3/6/2022 11:59 PM Mountain
FLSA: Non-Exempt

BENEFITS:
  • a family-friendly workplace, including paid caregiver leave, a breast feeding friendly-work environment, sick child care, an infants-at-work policy, and generous paid vacation, medical leave, and holidays
  • the opportunity to take charge of your well-being through a nationally-recognized wellness program, employee assistance program, and the choice of comprehensive health plans that include vision and dental coverage
  • peace of mind for the future with PERA pension, PERA 401k, and Social Security retirement plans, in addition to life and disability insurance, as well as critical illness and accidental insurance options
  • the opportunity to master new skills with robust learning programs and certificates, federal loan forgiveness (after ten years of public service), and county-paid tuition assistance for continuing education
  • Free EcoPass that can be used any time and for commuting to and from work, to the Denver Intranational Airport and Fort Collins and on all bus and rail lines operated by RTD. Opportunity to sign up for a free BCycle membership for bike share in Boulder.

For more information about benefits, visit the Jobs page: https://bouldercounty.gov/jobs/jobs-benefits/

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===




Boulder County Clerk and Recorder Office is seeking to hire an Elections Technician.  The Boulder County Clerk and Recorder Office provides the best in public service throughout all divisions this office oversees: Elections, Motor Vehicle and Recording, and we are seeking an Elections Technician to join our team.  The Elections Technician plays a key role in helping Boulder County set the state and nationwide gold standard for excellent service provided to voters.

About the division
The Elections Division provides comprehensive election services for Boulder County, including voter records, voter services, ballot processing, technical and logistical support, and end-to-end election administration.
The Elections Division is passionate about the work we do for democracy and we are committed to facilitating the most positive voting experience in the country. We set a high bar for fulfilling our commitment to voters in Boulder County, and we are a national award-winning organization with a reputation for excellence, innovation, accuracy and continual improvement.
Commitment to ensuring we include historically excluded communities in our outreach and administration is vital to fulfilling our mission of facilitating democracy. This person must be committed to building a culture where individuals from any background can be successful, which includes ongoing work around disrupting patterns, systems, and behaviors of inequity and exclusion.  The Elections Technician must be committed to practicing our values of public service, accountability, equity and inclusion, and collaboration.

About the position
The primary mission for this role is to ensure all voters have a voting experience that is positive, accurate, efficient, and one that builds trust with voters. This role will demonstrate our values through managing and overseeing the Elections Front Desk; provide support for all voters on a regular basis through inbound and outbound correspondence, programs and activities; maintain inventory and organization of office supplies; perform general and specific tasks in support of election team members, voter registration data entry and responding to voters through in-person, phone and email communication.

This position is part of a Voter Services group that is dedicated to ensuring that eligible voters in each general, primary, coordinated or special election can register to vote or update their voter registration, learn more about their voting options, request a replacement mail ballot and receive accurate information about the Colorado election model and voting in Boulder County. This position will be responsible for assisting all members of the public that come into the Elections Office. This position requires the ability and desire to serve voters in Boulder County and to successfully complete their work assignments in compliance with statute-driven hard deadlines.

The ideal candidate would enjoy both working as an individual contributor, accountable for the successful completion of their work, and working as part of a team to complete work assignments. They should have an interest in the democratic process and are passionate about the implementation of the election process, enjoys a compliance driven and dynamic environment, and is experienced in general office duties including intermediate knowledge of MS Office and general office supply ordering, tracking, and organization. They are experienced in customer service, data entry, organizing work tasks and can handle an often-fast-moving work environment with a positive attitude.

Election implementation requires regular review of processes, compliance with federal law, state statute and rule, building powerful partnerships and regular coordination with co-workers. Finally, Boulder County Elections is committed to setting the state and nationwide gold standard for voter service. This position will ensure we are able to assist our voters by being the first point of contact with voters and making sure the Front Office is organized and fully stocked with the necessary supplies.  This position is expected to build strong working relationships with all team members and be committed to the Boulder County Clerk and Recorder guiding values, including equity and inclusion.

This is a full-time, benefitted position.  The Elections Technician will work Monday - Thursday 10-hour days during non-election time; during the election season, overtime, nights, and weekends are required and is subject to periods of time when vacation scheduling is not allowed (because of the election calendar). This position will work at the Boulder County Clerk and Recorders Office, located at 1750 33rd St., Boulder, CO 80301.  Under Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) this position is non-exempt (eligible for overtime).
 
As of December 1, 2021, Boulder County requires all employees to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 or request an approved accommodation within ten days of accepting an offer of employment. A person is considered fully vaccinated two weeks after completion of a two-dose mRNA series or one dose of Johnson and Johnson vaccine.  
 
Boulder County requires its employees to reside in the state of Colorado as of the first day of work.

Hiring Salary Range: $37,560.00 - $45,300.00 Annually
Classification Salary Range: $37,560.00 - $53,040.00 Annually
 
Tentative Hiring Timeline:

Phone Screening: March 10th 
First Round Interviews: March 15th 
Computer Skills Test: March 15th

Ensure processes are completed in compliance with federal law, state statute and rules, county and division policies
Accurate and timely data entry in SCORE (the State-wide Colorado Registration & Election database). Become an expert user

Oversee the Elections Front Desk during peak election times, including walk in voters, office supply orders, voter registration data entry

Order office supplies for Elections Front Desk

Receive and prepare all incoming mail to be processed and ensure timely delivery to correct departments

Contact voters with issues regarding their voter registration

Respond to voter inquiries over the phone, in person and via email providing timely, accurate responses

Write and/or update and verify Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs)

Ensure all relevant elections data is tracked and retained to help with future election planning and voter education and outreach

Use basic planning skills to organize, implement, carryout work activities

Organize and maintain Historical Elections Archive

Assist with production and mailing of a variety of correspondence to voters

Assist election staff with a variety of projects

Ensure confidentiality of voter records and data

Complete course work necessary to obtain and maintain Colorado Election Certification to be compliant with Colorado Secretary of State standards and increase the professionalization of our office

Performs related work, as required
May be reassigned in case of emergency situation

PLEASE NOTE: When submitting your application be sure to include all relevant education and experience, as applications are screened based on the qualifications listed in this position announcement. Applications that do not appear to meet minimum qualifications, as outlined below, will not be considered. Resumes are not accepted in lieu of completed applications.


Please be aware that your cover letter and resume will not be accessed in the initial screening process, so you must complete your application and supplemental questions with as much detail as possible. Any personally identifiable information (PII) such as name and address will be redacted from applications that meet the minimum screening requirements and are forwarded to the hiring manager. If the hiring manager selects you to advance in the hiring process, your cover letter and resume will then be accessible to the hiring team.  

EDUCATION & EXPERIENCE:
Boulder County is looking for well qualified candidates to fill our positions. Any combination of relevant education and experience is encouraged. In this position, we are looking for a minimum of a high school diploma or equivalent and two years of office/customer service experience. 


DRIVER'S LICENSE:
Applicants must have a valid driver's license and good driving record

BACKGROUND CHECK:
A job offer is contingent on passing a criminal background investigation

PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS: 
SCORE (Statewide Colorado Registration and Elections database) data entry experience
Knowledge of election law and process 

KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, & ABILITIES: 
Ability to carefully read, analyze and apply statute and Secretary of State elections rules

Be self-motivated and collaborative with the ability to clearly communicate in both verbal and written form

Willingness to learn

Has the capacity to set clear goals, prioritize tasks, manage time efficiently, and effectively work with others toward outcomes.

Exceptional office organizational skills 

Boulder County is a family-friendly workplace dedicated to fostering a diverse, inclusive, and respectful environment for all employees. We prohibit unlawful discrimination against applicants and employees on the basis of race, color, religion, gender, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, socio-economic status, sexual orientation, genetic information, or any other status protected by applicable federal, state, or local law.

 


 