=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Technology and Security Project Manager
Salary: $86,736.00 - $124,896.00 YEAR
Location: Boulder County, CO, CO, 80302
Employer: Boulder County
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2022-02-22
Job Type: Full-time
Job Number: 4318(JT4)
Department: Clerk and Recorders Office
Division: CLK Elections
Opening Date: 02/23/2022
Closing Date: 3/9/2022 11:59 PM Mountain
FLSA: Exempt

BENEFITS:
  • a family-friendly workplace, including paid caregiver leave, a breast feeding friendly-work environment, sick child care, an infants-at-work policy, and generous paid vacation, medical leave, and holidays
  • the opportunity to take charge of your well-being through a nationally-recognized wellness program, employee assistance program, and the choice of comprehensive health plans that include vision and dental coverage
  • peace of mind for the future with PERA pension, PERA 401k, and Social Security retirement plans, in addition to life and disability insurance, as well as critical illness and accidental insurance options
  • the opportunity to master new skills with robust learning programs and certificates, federal loan forgiveness (after ten years of public service), and county-paid tuition assistance for continuing education
  • Free EcoPass that can be used any time and for commuting to and from work, to the Denver Intranational Airport and Fort Collins and on all bus and rail lines operated by RTD. Opportunity to sign up for a free BCycle membership for bike share in Boulder.

For more information about benefits, visit the Jobs page: https://bouldercounty.gov/jobs/jobs-benefits/

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===




Boulder County Clerk and Recorder Office is seeking to hire an Election Security and Technology Project Manager.

About the office
The Boulder County Clerk and Recorder’s Office provides Motor Vehicle, Recording, and Election services for Boulder County residents. The Election Security and Technology Project Manager will support all divisions of the Clerk and Recorder’s office while owning technology and security objectives for the Elections Division. This position is a member of the Elections Leadership Team.

The Clerk and Recorder’s office is committed to continual improvement for cybersecurity, physical security, and technology practices throughout all divisions and the ideal candidate will be committed to advancing the office’s development in these areas.

The Elections Division provides comprehensive elections services for Boulder County, including voter records, voter services, ballot processing, technical and logistical support, and end-to end election administration.

About the team
The Elections Division is passionate about the work we do for democracy, and we are committed to facilitating the highest-quality elections in the country. We set a high bar for fulfilling our commitment to voters in Boulder County, and we are a national award-winning organization with a reputation for excellence, innovation, accuracy and continual improvement.

Commitment to ensuring we include historically excluded communities in our culture and in the administration of elections is vital to fulfilling our mission of facilitating democracy. This person must be committed to building a culture where individuals from any background can be successful, which includes ongoing work around disrupting patterns, systems, and behaviors of inequity and exclusion.

About the position
This position will be accountable for the successful management of the voting system, creating and implementing security objectives, developing a team of up to 3 FTEs, and providing strategic technical oversight, guidance, and support to team members.

This position will work closely with their team to ensure voting system oversight – including procurement, maintenance, testing and validation, and ballot tabulation during the election. The ideal candidate has a track-record of creating an accountable and inclusive team culture while supporting themselves and the team through periods of high-scrutiny and pressure.

This position will also work closely with the Technology Team Coordinator, the office’s cybersecurity consultant, and Boulder County’s cybersecurity manager to ensure our security plan is updated and rooted in best practices from the ever-changing environment. The ideal candidate will be able to dive into the technical, legal, and administrative details while also having the skill of enrolling and training non-technical staff to comply with the plan.

The ideal candidate is a systems thinker who can manage and analyze data to identify relationships, patterns, trends, and impacts; is able to quickly learn, grasp, and retain a variety of complex processes, systems, and applications. Other important skills include strong problem-solving experience in a fast paced, changing, and deadline- driven environment, ability to present complex information and data in a user-friendly way; attention to detail in processes and systems as well as strong organization, planning, and collaborative skills in order to effectively integrate and balance outputs from multiple sources and formats that are created and managed by office staff. Experience with cybersecurity is preferred, but we are willing to train and develop the right person who otherwise can be successful in all other areas of the job.

The ideal candidate will also have experience in setting up test plans and quality controls checks by using data to validate results. In addition to process and technical skills, candidate must also be able to lead temporary and permanent staff in alignment with the office’s values.

This is a full-time, benefitted position. During non-election time, this position will work Monday - Thursday, 7:00am - 5:30pm; this includes both in-office and telecommuting options. During the election season, this position will require overtime, nights and weekends and is subject to periods of time when vacation scheduling is not allowed due to the election calendar. This position will work out of the Boulder County Clerk and Recorder's Office, located at 1750 33rd St., Boulder, CO 80301. Under Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) guidelines, this position is exempt.
 
As of December 1, 2021, Boulder County requires all employees to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 or request an approved accommodation within ten days of accepting an offer of employment. A person is considered fully vaccinated two weeks after completion of a two-dose mRNA series or one dose of Johnson and Johnson vaccine.  
 
Boulder County requires its employees to reside in the state of Colorado as of the first day of work.

Hiring Salary Range: $80,316.00 - $97,980.00 Annually
Classification Salary Range: $80,316.00 - $115,644.00 Annually
 
Tentative Hiring Timeline:

Phone Screening: March 17th
First Round Interviews: March 21st 
Second Round Interviews: March 23rd

1. Participate as a member of the division management team in preparing and recommending effective improvements to all processes and building the culture of the division
2. Conduct performance appraisals, counsels employees concerning performance, and recommends personnel actions in the areas of hiring, termination and discipline for up to 3 full time staff
3. Ensure compliance with state statute, rules, and Boulder County processes and policies
4. Ensure compliant execution of pre-election voting systems testing, live tabulation, and post-election Risk-Limiting Audit
5. Ensure security of election data, processes, and equipment
6. Manage election security escalation protocols
7. Create centralized reporting solutions which ensure compliance (canvass, reconciliation, certification, and abstract)
8. Ensure accurate implementation of hardware and software resources for Vote Centers
9. Provide hardware and software support for office
10. Liaise with the voting system vendor, Boulder County IT partners, Colorado Secretary of State, and the Clerk and Recorder’s cybersecurity consultant on issues relevant to responsibilities
11. Ensures Standard Operating Procedures are updated and accurate for training current and new employees and election temporary workers.
12. May be reassigned during emergency situations 
13. Performs related work as required

PLEASE NOTE: When submitting your application be sure to include all relevant education and experience, as applications are screened based on the qualifications listed in this position announcement. Applications that do not appear to meet minimum qualifications, as outlined below, will not be considered. Resumes are not accepted in lieu of completed applications.


Please be aware that your cover letter and resume will not be accessed in the initial screening process, so you must complete your application and supplemental questions with as much detail as possible. Any personally identifiable information (PII) such as name and address will be redacted from applications that meet the minimum screening requirements and are forwarded to the hiring manager. If the hiring manager selects you to advance in the hiring process, your cover letter and resume will then be accessible to the hiring team.  

EDUCATION & EXPERIENCE:
Boulder County is looking for well qualified candidates to fill our positions. Any combination of relevant education and experience is encouraged. In this position, we are looking for a minimum of six (6) years of combined education and experience. 


DRIVER'S LICENSE:
Applicants must have a valid driver's license, good driving record, and current automobile insurance

BACKGROUND CHECK:
A job offer is contingent on passing a criminal background investigation

KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, & ABILITIES:
Thorough knowledge of IT infrastructure and technology

Thorough knowledge of project management

Skills in management, administration and supervision

Strong communications skills (written and oral)

Ability to recognize, analyze and recommend solutions to software integration problems

Ability to troubleshoot a variety of problems

Ability to establish effective working relationships with those contacted in the course of work
FOR EXAMPLE:

Excellent knowledge of existing and emerging technology environments (e.g., networks, computing platforms, operating systems, etc.). 
Substantial exposure to system administration, data processing, hardware platforms, enterprise software applications and cloud systems. 
Advanced MS Excel (complex formulas, macros, import/export, table design and build, relational queries and reporting)

Boulder County is a family-friendly workplace dedicated to fostering a diverse, inclusive, and respectful environment for all employees. We prohibit unlawful discrimination against applicants and employees on the basis of race, color, religion, gender, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, socio-economic status, sexual orientation, genetic information, or any other status protected by applicable federal, state, or local law. 
