The Executive Director leads the administrative functions of the EAC to achieve maximum efficiency and effectiveness in its programs and operations. The Executive Director oversees all day to day activities within the following divisions/offices: General Counsel, Chief Information Office, Testing & Certification, Communications, Clearinghouse, Grants, Research, Human Resources & Administrative, and Financial Management.
The Executive Director leads the administrative functions of the EAC to achieve maximum efficiency and effectiveness in its programs and operations. The Executive Director oversees all day to day activities within the following divisions/offices: General Counsel, Chief Information Office, Testing & Certification, Communications, Clearinghouse, Grants, Research, Human Resources & Administrative, and Financial Management.
The Executive Director has overall Commission-wide responsibility for implementing, through its operating divisions and offices, the management and administrative policies and decisions of the Commissioners. The Executive Director serves as a key management advisor to the Commissioners. The Executive Director is responsible for ensuring the agency meets its mission defined in HAVA. The Executive Director's responsibilities include:
The Executive Director has frequent contact with key officials throughout the country, and high-level contacts with officials of other government agencies and external organizations. These contacts often involve contentious and complex questions of agency direction and resources, as well as matters of policy, and require an extraordinary degree of tact, customer service approach, awareness, and communication skills.
Your resume must include information that emphasizes progressive leadership responsibilities for positions held to include the scope and complexity, program accomplishments, and results of executive actions taken. Additionally, the resume must include information that addresses how your qualifications relate to the Mandatory Technical Qualifications (MTQs) and the Executive Competencies.
NOTE: EACH MANDATORY TECHNICAL QUALIFICATION and EXECUTIVE COMPETENCY must be addressed separately in a supplemental narrative statement.
Qualifications
To qualify for the position, you must possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-15 level in the Federal service, or comparable experience gained outside federal service.
Specialized Experience is defined as experience in managing two or more of the following functional areas: strategic and operational planning, budget and financial management (which may include procurement), human capital management, management operations (including space, facilities, physical and personnel security), and records management/legal proceedings/or agency secretariat functions.
Must demonstrate the ability to perform at an Executive Level - see competencies below.
Mandatory Technical Qualifications
Bachelor's or higher degree in a related field is preferred.
You will be evaluated for this job based on how well you meet the qualifications above.
Please read the "Next steps" section for more information.
Required documents include a resume and the supporting documents as described in the "How to Apply Instructions" section of this announcement.
Education must be accredited by an accrediting institution recognized by the U.S. Department of Education in order for it to be credited towards qualifications. Therefore, provide only the attendance and/or degrees from schools accredited by accrediting institutions recognized by the U.S. Department of Education.
Failure to provide all of the required information as stated in this vacancy announcement may result in an ineligible rating or may affect the overall rating.
All applicants MUST submit applications via email: resumes@eac.gov. You do not need to submit your application package through the USAJOBS process.
You MUST include the job title and announcement number in the subject line of the email.
Your application package must be received by the closing date of the announcement and must include the following:
1. A resume.
2. Three professional references.
Your application materials will be reviewed and if an interview is deemed appropriate, you will be contacted with further information.
The Federal hiring process is set up to be fair and transparent. Please read the following guidance.