=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: GRANT AND CONTRACT SPECIALIST
Salary: $3,446.00 - $4,627.00 MONTH
Location: Thurston County – Olympia, WA, WA, 98504
Employer: State of Washington
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2021-08-23
Job Type: Project (limited duration)
Job Number: 21 EL GCS PE002
Department: Office of the Secretary of State
Division: Elections
Opening Date: 08/23/2021
Closing Date: 7/15/2022 9:30 AM Pacific

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===


Headed by an elected state official, the Office of the Secretary of State is responsible for administering elections within the state, registering corporations and charities that do business within the state, collecting and preserving the records of governmental bodies within the state, and maintaining the Washington State Library. The office also administers the Address Confidentiality Program, the Legacy Washington and the Combined Fund Drive. Visit our website at: www.sos.wa.gov.

The Elections Division plays a critical role in ensuring Washington's democratic process is fair, accurate, accessible, and secure. Elections staff provide valuable services to voters, as well as statutorily required training and certifications to election administrators in all 39 counties. The division develops elections policy, administers our statewide voter registration database, manages statewide elections, and verifies and accepts petitions for initiatives and referenda.
 
Grant and Contract Specialist (HAVA Election Security Grant Project)
Full time, Project

This position will report to the deputy director of elections and is responsible for assisting the deputy in the management of administering federal grant funds, including Help America Vote Act (HAVA) grant funds.  It also plays a key role in the elections division by performing research analysis and managing retention of grant records with regard to HAVA grants.

This position belongs to the "HAVA Elections Security Grant" project and is tentatively scheduled to last through 12/20/2024.

Please note: Interviews for this position will be conducted on an ongoing basis.  It is in the candidate's best interest to apply as soon as possible. The hiring manager reserves the right to fill the position at any time.

Grant Administration:
Tasks include:
Makes recommendations based on analysis of funding needs for grant applications
Establishes grant guidelines
Issues notice of grant openings
Processes grant payments
Reviews and determines eligibility against grant application criteria
Establishes program income codes in a manner that will track required reporting requirements
Reviews draft contracts and contract amendments for completeness and compliance with procedures
Applies consistent interpretation of laws, rules, policies and procedures
Communicates effectively with county departments and staff to facilitate and ensure adherence to policies and procedures
Evaluates budget and fiscal system performance, making adjustments as necessary
Coordinates the establishment of fiscal goals, audits of financial documents and the preparation and maintenance of fiscal reports
Prepares related applications for funding
Develops internal controls to ensure that all known expenses are accounted for
Prepares and develops budgets for the various program income codes
Works with staff responsible for carrying out grant duties to ensure that funding is available, allowable and allocable to the federal grant
Assists counties in applying for grant applications
Provides technical assistance to counties when necessary
Monitors grant progress with each county auditor on each grant
Tracks grant agreements to ensure compliance with scope of work, period of performance and funding levels
Monitors budgets and related fiscal reports to ensure grant audit compliance, adherence to county, state and federal regulations, allowable costs, adequate budgetary constraints/controls maintenance, timely report submission, and compliance with generally accepted accounting practices and procedures
Possesses knowledge with Office of Management and Budget (OMB) circulars, the Help America Vote Act and other laws passed by congress concerning grants management
Develops contractual language for grant agreements
Prepares for Inspector General Audits
Reads and analyzes awarding agency audit findings and make adjustments when necessary
Tracks and analyzes expenditures against budgeted or allotted forecasts and make adjustments when necessary
Review all contracts for adherence with contract terms and conditions
Tracks grant balances and take proper action when grants expire
Complies with proper internal controls in accordance with the Uniform Administrative Requirements
Tracks all equipment purchased with HAVA funds
Prepares and maintains financial report to the federal awarding agency
Prepares and provides status of accounts, both actual and projected, along with analysis and recommendations relative to activity costs and revenues
Coordinates visits by federal and/or State auditors
Monitors activity related to the grant
Reviews processes and procedures to ensure that adequate internal controls are in place
Develops internal controls to protect against fraud, waste and abuse when necessary
Prepares and provides status of grants, both actual and projected, along with analysis and recommendations relative to activity costs and revenues
Processes A-19 reimbursement requests in a timely manner
Works closely with Payroll to ensure that employees charging time to federal grants are in compliance with OMB circulars
Develops a means to track expenditures against appropriate awards

 

REQUIRED QUALIFICATIONS

Three years of experience providing support to staff or a program including, but not limited to, interpreting policy and instructing others on application of policies, representing a program or office to clients, interacting with members of the public, composing correspondence, scheduling appointments or coordinating events, with two or more years in grant management                    
Ability to efficiently use a personal computer and applicable software to successfully perform the essential functions of the position
Current Washington State driver's license or have requested and obtained an appropriate accommodation

DESIRED QUALIFICATIONS
Experience with federal grant applications, compliance, auditing and reporting
Grant Management Specialist Credential or Certification
Bachelor's degree from a four-year college or university with coursework in accounting, business or public administration or related discipline applicable to the duties of the position                                                                              
Washington State Election Administrator Certification
Knowledge of Washington State government policies and legislative processes
Knowledge of Washington State and Federal election laws

Working Conditions:
Works primarily in an office environment, but does require traveling in a vehicle for extended periods of time. Must be willing and able to sit for 4 or more hours a day. Must be willing and able to move and maneuver objects weighing up to 30 pounds with or without reasonable accommodation. Standard core business hours of Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
Must be willing and able to work beyond normally scheduled business hours on short notice.
Travel to other office facilities in the local area is required for meetings; and occasional travel state wide. Work a flexible schedule, which may include evenings, weekends, holidays and overtime. May be required to travel in inclement weather.

Per Governor Inslee’s Proclamation 21-14 (Download PDF reader) (Download PDF reader) (Download PDF reader), employees at the Office of the Secretary of State must be fully vaccinated no later than February 25, 2022.  Your vaccine status will be verified by Human Resources prior to your first day of employment.  Please contact Gretchen Barocio at hr@sos.wa.gov if you need information on medical or religious accommodation

SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS/CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT

This is a project (limited) position with a tentative scheduled completion date of 12/20/2024
This position is covered by a union, Washington Federation of State Employees (WFSE).
HOW TO APPLY
Please attach a letter of interest and resume describing how your experience and qualifications relate to the position description and the required and desired qualifications
You must complete the supplemental questions at the end of this application.  Incomplete responses such as "see resume" will not be considered
All veterans must include a copy of your DD214 to receive preference in the hiring process.  You must redact your social security number before attaching it to your application
The Office of the Secretary of State is an equal opportunity employer (EOE). We do not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, creed, sex, sexual orientation, disability, familial status, marital status, gender expression, gender identity and age. All interested candidates are encouraged to apply. Persons of disability needing assistance in the application process, or those needing this announcement in alternative format, should call (360) 704-5210.
.

More than Just a Paycheck!Employee benefits are not just about the kind of services you get, they are also about how much you may have to pay out of pocket. Washington State offers one of the most competitive benefits packages in the nation.We understand that your life revolves around more than just your career. Like everyone, your first priority is ensuring that you and your family will maintain health and financial security. That's why choice is a key component of our benefits package. We have a selection of health and retirement plans, paid leave, staff training and other compensation benefits that you can mix and match to meet your current and future needs.Read about our benefits:The following information describes typical benefits available for full-time employees who are expected to work more than six months. Actual benefits may vary by appointment type or be prorated for other than full-time work (e.g. part-time); view the job posting for benefits details for job types other than full-time.Note:  If the position offers benefits which differ from the following, the job posting should include the specific benefits. Insurance BenefitsEmployees and their families are covered by medical (including vision), dental and basic life insurance. There are multiple medical plans with affordable monthly premiums that offer coverage throughout the state.Staff are eligible to enroll each year in a medical flexible spending account which enables them to use tax-deferred dollars toward their health care expenses. Employees are also covered by basic life and long-term disability insurance, with the option to purchase additional coverage amounts.To view premium rates, coverage choice in your area and how to enroll, please visit the Public Employees Benefits Board (PEBB) website. The Washington Wellness program from the Health Care Authority works with PEBB to support our workplace wellness programs.Dependent care assistance allows the employee to save pre-tax dollars for a child or elder care expenses.Other insurance coverage for auto, boat, home, and renter insurance is available through payroll deduction.The Washington State Employee Assistance Program promotes the health and well-being of employees.Retirement and Deferred CompensationState Employees are members of the Washington Public Employees' Retirement System (PERS).  New employees have the option of two employer contributed retirement programs.  For additional information, check out the Department of Retirement Systems' web site.Employees also have the ability to participate in the Deferred Compensation Program (DCP).  This is a supplemental retirement savings program (similar to an IRA) that allows you control over the amount of pre-tax salary dollars you defer as well as the flexibility to choose between multiple investment options.Social SecurityAll state employees are covered by the federal Social Security and Medicare systems. The state and the employee pay an equal amount into the system.Public Service Loan ForgivenessIf you are employed by a government or not-for-profit organization, and meet the qualifying criteria, you may be eligible to receive student loan forgiveness under the Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program.Holidays Full-time and part-time employees are entitled to paid holidays and one paid personal holiday per calendar year.Note: Employees who are members of certain Unions may be entitled to additional personal leave day(s), please refer to position specific Collective Bargaining Agreements for more information.Full-time employees who work full monthly schedules qualify for holiday compensation if they are employed before the holiday and are in pay status for at least 80 nonovertime hours during the month of the holiday; or for the entire work shift preceding the holiday. Part-time employees who are in pay status during the month of the holiday qualify for the holiday on a pro-rata basis. Compensation for holidays (including personal holiday) will be proportionate to the number of hours in pay status in the month to that required for full-time employment, excluding all holiday hours. Pay status includes hours worked and time on paid leave.Sick Leave Full-time employees earn eight hours of sick leave per month. Overtime eligible employees who are in pay status for less than 80 hours per month, earn a monthly proportionate to the number of hours in pay status, in the month to that required for full-time employment. Overtime exempt employees who are in pay status for less than 80 hours per month do not earn a monthly accrual of sick leave. Sick leave accruals for part-time employees will be proportionate to the number of hours in pay status, in the month to that required for full-time employment. Pay status includes hours worked, time on paid leave and paid holiday.Vacation (Annual Leave)Full-time employees accrue vacation leave at the rates specified in WAC 357-31-165(1) or the applicable collective bargaining agreement (CBA). Full-time employees who are in pay status for less than 80 nonovertime hours in a month do not earn a monthly accrual of vacation leave.Part-time employees accrue vacation leave hours in accordance with WAC 357-31-165(1) or the applicable collective bargaining agreement (CBA) on a pro rata basis. Vacation leave accrual will be proportionate to the number of hours in pay status, in the month to that required for full-time employment.Pay status includes hours worked, time on paid leave and paid holiday.As provided in WAC 357-58-175, an employer may authorize a lump-sum accrual of vacation leave or accelerate the vacation leave accrual rate to support the recruitment and/or retention of a candidate or employee for a Washington Management Service position. Vacation leave accrual rates may only be accelerated using the rates established WAC 357-31-165.  Note: Most agencies follow the civil service rules covering leave and holidays for exempt employees even though there is no requirement for them to do so. However, agencies are required to adhere to the applicable RCWs pertaining holidays and leave.Military LeaveWashington State supports members of the armed forces with 21 days paid military leave per year.Bereavement Leave Most employees whose family member or household member dies, are entitled to three (3) days of paid bereavement leave. In addition, the employer may approve other available leave types for the purpose of bereavement leave.Additional LeaveLeave SharingParental LeaveFamily and Medical Leave Act (FMLA)Leave Without PayPlease visit the State HR Website for more detailed information regarding benefits.Updated 12-31-2022


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have providing support to staff or a program pertaining to policies, composing correspondence, coordinating events or grant management?
        
        
                I have 4+ years of experience
                I have 3-4 years of experience
                I have 2-3 years of experience
                I have 1-2 years of experience
                I have less than 1 year of experience
                I do not have this experience
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        If you reported that you have experience in the above question, please identify the employer and tasks performed from which you gained this experience.  If you do not have this experience, please put "N/A" in the box below.
        
        
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have with federal grant applications, compliance, auditing and reporting?
        
        
                I have 4+ years of experience
                I have 3-4 years of experience
                I have 2-3 years experience
                I have 1-2 years experience
                I have less than 1 year of experience
                I do not have this experience
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        If you reported that you have experience in the question above, please identify the employer and tasks performed from which you gained this experience. If you do not have this experience, please put "N/A" in the box below.
        
        
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Please describe your experience and knowledge with State and Federal election law.
        
        
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Do you have a grant management specialist credential or certification?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Please describe your experience in providing support to a staff, including but not limited to, interpreting policy and instructing others on application processes, composing correspondence, coordinating events and interacting with members of the public. If you do not have this experience, please put "N/A" in the box below.
        
        
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        This position has a requirement to be physically in the office. Are you able to do this?  Please answer YES or NO.
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        PLEASE READ THE BELOW AND TYPE YOUR INITIALS IN RESPONSE TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT YOU HAVE READ AND UNDERSTAND THESE STATEMENTS. • I will NOT attach or place my vaccination status within the application, resume, or cover letter. If I do, I understand that it will be rejected and I will be provided an opportunity to apply again without including my confidential health information. • I understand that my vaccination status is not needed until I am offered employment for the job for which I am applying. After a job offer is made, the Human Resources Office will contact me to review my vaccination status. Individuals unable to receive the COVID-19 vaccination due to medical condition(s) and/or sincerely held religious beliefs will have an opportunity to request an exemption and engage with Human Resources to explore what if any reasonable accommodations are available for the job you may be offered. • I will not share my vaccination status with hiring managers or interview panels.
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        