=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: VOTER EDUCATION &amp; OUTREACH SPECIALIST
Salary: $55,524.00 - $74,604.00 YEAR
Location: Thurston County – Olympia, WA, WA, 98504
Employer: State of Washington
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2022-02-10
Job Type: Full Time - Permanent
Job Number: 22 EL PS4 0892
Department: Office of the Secretary of State
Division: Elections
Opening Date: 02/10/2022
Closing Date: 10/13/2022 9:00 AM Pacific

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===



The Office of Secretary of State (OSOS) offers some of the most unique and diverse job opportunities in state government. Its critical responsibilities include: ensuring a fair and accurate elections process; connecting Washingtonians through the power of libraries; protecting our important government records; and registering corporations and charities. The Secretary of State also administers vital community programs that inspire giving, document our history, and assist crime survivors in avoiding further abuse. This independent office under the state Constitution operates from facilities in the Olympia area and statewide.

The OSOS is looking for top-performing employees who embody its core values of integrity, service excellence, visionary leadership, collaboration and teamwork. It is committed to both employee growth and work-life balance. The benefits of working in state government also include potential eligibility for the federal Public Service Loan Forgiveness program.

The Elections Division plays a critical role in ensuring Washington's democratic process is fair, accurate, accessible, and secure. Elections staff provide valuable services to voters, as well as statutorily required training and certifications to election administrators in all 39 counties. The division develops elections policy, administers our statewide voter registration database and VoteWA system, manages statewide elections, and verifies and accepts petitions for initiatives and referenda.
 
Voter Education & Outreach Specialist 
Full-time, Permanent
 



This position reports to the Voting Information Services Manager of the Elections Division and works collaboratively to provide outreach and educational services. This position leads onsite customer service to candidates during annual peaks, voters' pamphlet training for internal staff, organization of printed materials for proofing, fulfillment of outreach materials to stakeholders, and coordinates the printing and distribution of the state Voters’ Pamphlet.

 

The passage of new legislation (ESHB 2421) increases the business needs to be met by the Secretary of State’s Office. Each May and June, the office must preview and process candidate's statements to be printed in local county primary pamphlets as well as the processing necessary July through October for the state general election pamphlet.

 

The Voting Information Services (VIS) team promotes accessible, fair, and accurate elections. Through educational programs and service excellence, we help eligible Washington residents register to vote, file for office, and cast an informed ballot. 




VIS exercises visionary leadership to publish the state Voters' Pamphlet. The team provides voters and candidates with essential tools and training, digestible data and auditing reports, outreach programs and publications. VIS also advises County Auditors in interpretations of federal and state election law to uphold the integrity of election administration throughout the state. These objectives are accomplished through official communications, collaboration with stakeholders, and educational publications including the state Voters’ Pamphlet. The VIS program also acts as liaison for the Office of the Secretary of State.

 




**Please note:  Interviews for this position will be conducted on an ongoing basis. First review of applicants will begin February 17, 2022. It is in the candidates best interest to apply as soon as possible. The hiring manager reserves the right to fill the position at any time.

 



 


PRIMARY RESPONSIBILITIES

 

Coordinates voters' pamphlets and legal advertisements

 
Leads in-person customer contact involving all aspects of the voters’ pamphlet process. Works on continuous improvement efforts in collaboration with other VIS team members; and is involved with directly coordinating efforts with designers, composition, translation services, and accessible formats.  Requires in-person quality checks for proofing and press checks.  Directly involved with VIS team members, composition coordinator, printers, mailing vendor(s), and accomplishing other duties and tasks necessary to publish and distribute the state and combined local voters’ pamphlets
Coordinates in-person aspects of annual design reviews and post-election debriefs of voters’ pamphlet information with division management and executive leadership; updates educational information according to new legislation or executive direction
Collaborates with VIS manager and candidate filing lead to prepare for Candidate Filing and Statement Submission Weeks; updates educational materials for candidates; prepares online submission tools; supports contingency planning; supports candidates who file/submit in person or online
Tests and provides testing feedback to the VoteWA Support team for continuous improvements to the system’s administrative functions and online statement submission tools. In collaboration with the candidate filing lead, provides expertise to the VoteWA Support team to improve the candidate’s user experience and uphold the integrity of the system
Coordinates with counties to ensure appropriate voters’ pamphlet delivery dates, deadlines, formats, and content while providing in-person training, technical assistance, and troubleshooting for county staff unfamiliar with voters’ pamphlet project management, voters’ pamphlet procedures in the system, or professional design software
Provides excellent customer service to candidates for all statement submission methods; includes but is not limited to technical assistance and computer troubleshooting, uploading statements, biographies and print-quality digital photos through the online submission tool, and hard copies submitted in person
 Verifies candidates’ compliance with statutory and quality standards dictating statement length limits, and photograph size and pixel resolution to ensure information is ready for use in the printed voters’ pamphlet; works with ballot measure committees, and staff from the legislature, Attorney General’s Office, and Office of Financial Management to gather all legally required content for the voters’ pamphlet
Ensures that ideas and information in division publications are conveyed in writing and layout using language and design that is appropriate to the audience, the complexity of the topic and the knowledge and understanding of the reader
Collaborates with the program’s language and accessibility lead to coordinate timely publication of translations and accessible formats
Works with others in the division and stakeholders to gather accurate publication content
Drafts print requisitions and specifications, packages artwork for the printer, and works with the printer throughout the publication process, including with on-site press checks and reviews of blue-lines sent to the Elections Division; works with vendors to ensure quality and timeliness by delivering content and artwork via online FTP sites unique to each vendor
Coordinates accurate and timely publication of all formats including print copies to residences and distribution partners, the online voter guide, creation and distribution of audio files, and the availability of other accessible formats such as plain text and PDFs
Supports the main point of contact for phone, email, mail, and in-person voter pamphlet support for stakeholders by being able to provide on-site support to candidates who physically come to the elections building with questions and concerns and/or training for support staff answering questions via phone regarding voter’s pamphlets. Provides best practices, training, and other educational materials for stakeholders producing voters’ pamphlets
Assists with phone, email, mail, and in-person candidate filing support for stakeholders
Supports the coordination of the division documentation system for all editions (electronic and hard copy) to process statements, proofread content, track edits, review for print and ultimately organize final editions (electronic and hard copy) that is maintained on-site at the Elections Division
Coordinates publication of legal ads for ballot measures in legal newspapers throughout the state. Collaborates with financial services to process payment for legal ads and invoices received by mail, email, or in-person
Prepares on-site coordination and fulfillment of: processing recall election documents, intake/scanning, tests systems, forms, and onsite procedures to file candidates for office
Creates training references for internal staff
Reviews in-person filing procedures with Candidate Filing lead
Drafts and reviews VoteWA Notices for VP/Candidates
Proofs email / phone scripts for candidates
Onsite for annual in-person filing and statement submissions peaks
Coordinates Voters’ Pamphlet Gallery for final approval from Executive Leadership
Prepares and prints materials for the Secretary, Director and Manager
Follows up meetings with determinations made by Leadership
Tests Service-now system with hotline staff for fulfillment of customer needs
Sets up staging area for voters’ pamphlet fulfillment
Tracks pamphlets returned
Supports in-person fulfillment of audio pamphlets:
Creates USBs onsite as needed
Tracks requests
Coordinates onsite tasks for legal ad processing – mail, invoices, scan, track
Coordinates final proofing and printing of blue line editions
Prints multiple copies per edition for proofing team as necessary
Prints and provides checklists for proofing



Coordinates education and outreach activities
  
Forms partnerships in communities throughout the state that will foster and promote voting and civic participation with a primary focus on K-12 and college students, but also includes military and overseas voters, voters living with disabilities, voters with non-traditional addresses and language access communities
Coordinates K-12 and college education and outreach including, but not limited to: mock elections, art contests, curriculum, school and college visits, teacher training workshops, digital toolkits and corresponding election webpages. Schedules visitations to classrooms and advocacy organizations upon request and attends visitations when requested.
Designs and implements an education and outreach plan annually; plans, promotes, and coordinates events with internal and external stakeholders and attends events when requested
Coordinates maintenance and improvements to civics and election curriculum; identifies and recommends new opportunities for reaching and educating voters
Coordinates printing and distribution of election curriculum and related material. Distribution of material must be done on-site at the Elections Division where the materials are staged and can be sent via the appropriate outgoing mail handling vendor
Ensures assigned areas of the public website are current, educational and functioning; content is updated regularly 
Provides presentation materials and assistance to the leadership team
Identifies and recommends new outreach opportunities though in-person meetings, correspondence, or discussions with external and internal stakeholders
Receives and processes requests for outreach and education supplies by communicating with the requestor, packaging the materials, and distributing them to the requestor by mail, email, in-person, etc.
Assists with the coordination of voter registration drives with stakeholders, including compiling data regarding forms received by mail and providing registration materials by mail and in-person
Fulfills of outreach materials; test email inboxes; refresh outreach packets and forms
Fulfills of student mock election materials and civics curriculum
Writes talking points for hotline staff
Conducts sessions for hotline staff

Miscellaneous
 
Supports onsite tracking and testing of county election results for every election, and every dry run prior to an election.
Supports VIS team members as directed by manager
Other duties as assigned




 



REQUIRED QUALIFICATIONS
 

Four years of experience providing support to staff or a program in elections administration including, but not limited to, compiling and coordinating the printing and distribution of a publication with high circulation, interpreting policy and instructing others on application of policies, representing a program or office to clients, composing correspondence, scheduling appointments and meetings, working cooperatively with political party representatives, elected officials, election administrators, and the press and public in sensitive situations
Ability to efficiently use a personal computer and applicable software to successfully perform the essential functions of the position
Current Washington state driver’s license or have requested and obtained an appropriate accommodation
 

PREFERRED/DESIRED QUALIFICATIONS
 
Experience applying project management principles to meet deadlines
Demonstrated experience in a team environment working towards accomplishing your own goals and those of the team, in roles both as a team member and a leader
Experience working in a fast paced, highly visible, changing environment with proven results in decision making
Experience organizing multiple assignments to produce work products that are accurate and thorough
Experience conducting educational programming for K-12 education, higher education, or other training settings
Knowledge of federal and state election law, and county election procedures 
Experience working with desktop publishing products like Adobe Acrobat, Illustrator, Photoshop, and InDesign
Experience preparing and delivering formal presentations to small and large groups


WORKING CONDITIONS
 

Standard office environment with tight deadlines and high pressure; printing environment with ink, noise of web press, and newsprint
Ability to represent an elected official or politician in a competent, confident, and professional manner while maintaining the highest standards of honesty, integrity, loyalty, confidentiality and ethics
Standard core business hours of Monday – Friday, 8am – 5pm to collaborate with team members and serve customers in-person, with the ability to work irregular hours and weekends as needed to support business activities and events
The duties of this position require the ability to travel independently and deliver presentations to all parts of the state
Willing to travel in and out of state, staying overnight for up to one week; weekend travel may be required
Per Governor Inslee's Proclamation 21-14 (Download PDF reader) (Download PDF reader) (Download PDF reader) (Download PDF reader), employees at the Office of the Secretary of State must be fully vaccinated no later than February 25, 2022.  Your vaccine status will be verified by Human Resources prior to your first day of employment.  Please contact Human Resources at hr@sos.wa.gov, if you need information on medical or religious accommodation  


SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS/CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT 
 
This position is covered by a union, Washington Federation of State Employees (WFSE).
Certification as an Elections Administrator within two years of employment
This position is deemed essential to the critical infrastructure to support the business needs within the Elections division
 

HOW TO APPLY

To be considered for this position you must attach the following: current resume and letter of interest describing how your experience and qualifications relate to the duties and qualifications of the position and three professional references.


You must complete the supplemental questions at the end of this application.  Incomplete responses such as "see resume" will not be considered.  In addition, if the employer you identify in the additional information section is not included on your resume or work experience profile and/or you do not identify an employer, you will not receive credit. 

All veterans must include a copy of your DD214 to receive preference in the hiring process.  You must black out your social security number before attaching it to your application.

The Office of the Secretary of State is an equal opportunity employer (EOE). We do not discriminate on the basis of religion, age, gender, marital status, color, creed, national origin, political affiliation, military status, gender identity, sexual orientation, or any sensory, mental or physical ability. All interested candidates are encouraged to apply. Persons of disability needing assistance in the application process, or those needing the announcement in alternative format, should call (360) 704-5210.

More than Just a Paycheck!Employee benefits are not just about the kind of services you get, they are also about how much you may have to pay out of pocket. Washington State offers one of the most competitive benefits packages in the nation.We understand that your life revolves around more than just your career. Like everyone, your first priority is ensuring that you and your family will maintain health and financial security. That's why choice is a key component of our benefits package. We have a selection of health and retirement plans, paid leave, staff training and other compensation benefits that you can mix and match to meet your current and future needs.Read about our benefits:The following information describes typical benefits available for full-time employees who are expected to work more than six months. Actual benefits may vary by appointment type or be prorated for other than full-time work (e.g. part-time); view the job posting for benefits details for job types other than full-time.Note:  If the position offers benefits which differ from the following, the job posting should include the specific benefits. Insurance BenefitsEmployees and their families are covered by medical (including vision), dental and basic life insurance. There are multiple medical plans with affordable monthly premiums that offer coverage throughout the state.Staff are eligible to enroll each year in a medical flexible spending account which enables them to use tax-deferred dollars toward their health care expenses. Employees are also covered by basic life and long-term disability insurance, with the option to purchase additional coverage amounts.To view premium rates, coverage choice in your area and how to enroll, please visit the Public Employees Benefits Board (PEBB) website. The Washington Wellness program from the Health Care Authority works with PEBB to support our workplace wellness programs.Dependent care assistance allows the employee to save pre-tax dollars for a child or elder care expenses.Other insurance coverage for auto, boat, home, and renter insurance is available through payroll deduction.The Washington State Employee Assistance Program promotes the health and well-being of employees.Retirement and Deferred CompensationState Employees are members of the Washington Public Employees' Retirement System (PERS).  New employees have the option of two employer contributed retirement programs.  For additional information, check out the Department of Retirement Systems' web site.Employees also have the ability to participate in the Deferred Compensation Program (DCP).  This is a supplemental retirement savings program (similar to an IRA) that allows you control over the amount of pre-tax salary dollars you defer as well as the flexibility to choose between multiple investment options.Social SecurityAll state employees are covered by the federal Social Security and Medicare systems. The state and the employee pay an equal amount into the system.Public Service Loan ForgivenessIf you are employed by a government or not-for-profit organization, and meet the qualifying criteria, you may be eligible to receive student loan forgiveness under the Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program.Holidays Full-time and part-time employees are entitled to paid holidays and one paid personal holiday per calendar year.Note: Employees who are members of certain Unions may be entitled to additional personal leave day(s), please refer to position specific Collective Bargaining Agreements for more information.Full-time employees who work full monthly schedules qualify for holiday compensation if they are employed before the holiday and are in pay status for at least 80 nonovertime hours during the month of the holiday; or for the entire work shift preceding the holiday. Part-time employees who are in pay status during the month of the holiday qualify for the holiday on a pro-rata basis. Compensation for holidays (including personal holiday) will be proportionate to the number of hours in pay status in the month to that required for full-time employment, excluding all holiday hours. Pay status includes hours worked and time on paid leave.Sick Leave Full-time employees earn eight hours of sick leave per month. Overtime eligible employees who are in pay status for less than 80 hours per month, earn a monthly proportionate to the number of hours in pay status, in the month to that required for full-time employment. Overtime exempt employees who are in pay status for less than 80 hours per month do not earn a monthly accrual of sick leave. Sick leave accruals for part-time employees will be proportionate to the number of hours in pay status, in the month to that required for full-time employment. Pay status includes hours worked, time on paid leave and paid holiday.Vacation (Annual Leave)Full-time employees accrue vacation leave at the rates specified in WAC 357-31-165(1) or the applicable collective bargaining agreement (CBA). Full-time employees who are in pay status for less than 80 nonovertime hours in a month do not earn a monthly accrual of vacation leave.Part-time employees accrue vacation leave hours in accordance with WAC 357-31-165(1) or the applicable collective bargaining agreement (CBA) on a pro rata basis. Vacation leave accrual will be proportionate to the number of hours in pay status, in the month to that required for full-time employment.Pay status includes hours worked, time on paid leave and paid holiday.As provided in WAC 357-58-175, an employer may authorize a lump-sum accrual of vacation leave or accelerate the vacation leave accrual rate to support the recruitment and/or retention of a candidate or employee for a Washington Management Service position. Vacation leave accrual rates may only be accelerated using the rates established WAC 357-31-165.  Note: Most agencies follow the civil service rules covering leave and holidays for exempt employees even though there is no requirement for them to do so. However, agencies are required to adhere to the applicable RCWs pertaining holidays and leave.Military LeaveWashington State supports members of the armed forces with 21 days paid military leave per year.Bereavement Leave Most employees whose family member or household member dies, are entitled to three (3) days of paid bereavement leave. In addition, the employer may approve other available leave types for the purpose of bereavement leave.Additional LeaveLeave SharingParental LeaveFamily and Medical Leave Act (FMLA)Leave Without PayPlease visit the State HR Website for more detailed information regarding benefits.Updated 12-31-2022


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Where did you hear about this job opening?
        
        
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Do you have a family member or relative employed at the Office of the Secretary of State?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        If you answered Yes in the previous question, what is the name of your family member/relative?
        
        
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have providing support to staff or a program including but not limited to, interpreting policy and instructing others on application of policies, representing a program or office to clients, interacting with members of the public, composing correspondence, scheduling appointments and meetings, or coordinating events?
        
        
                4+ years of experience
                2-3 years of experience
                1-2 years of experience
                Less than 1 year of experience
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Please describe your experience in reference to question #4 including where and when you gained the experience and the tasks and skills you obtained to gain this experience.  If you do not have this experience, please write "N/A" in the box below.
        
        
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        How many years of demonstrated experience do you have in a team environment working towards accomplishing your own goals and those of the team, in roles both as a team member and a leader?
        
        
                3+ years of experience
                2-3 years of experience
                1-2 years of experience
                Less than 1 year of experience
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Please describe your experience in reference to question #6 including where and when you gained the experience and the tasks and skills you obtained to gain experience. If you do not have this experience, please write "N/A" in the box below.
        
        
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have in an elections environment or elections-related field?
        
        
                2+ years of experience
                1-2 years of experience
                Less than 1 year of experience
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        Please describe your experience in reference to question #8 including where and when you gained the experience and the tasks and skills you obtained to gain experience. If you do not have this experience, please write "N/A" in the box below.
        
        
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        Do you have knowledge of federal and Washington State election laws?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

11

    

    
        This position has a requirement to be physically in the office which is located in Olympia, Washington. Are you able to do this? Please answer YES or NO.
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

12

    

    
        PLEASE READ THE BELOW AND TYPE YOUR INITIALS IN RESPONSE TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT YOU HAVE READ AND UNDERSTAND THESE STATEMENTS. • I will NOT attach or place my vaccination status within the application, resume, or cover letter. If I do, I understand that it will be rejected and I will be provided an opportunity to apply again without including my confidential health information. • I understand that my vaccination status is not needed until I am offered employment for the job for which I am applying. After a job offer is made, the Human Resources Office will contact me to review my vaccination status. Individuals unable to receive the COVID-19 vaccination due to medical condition(s) and/or sincerely held religious beliefs will have an opportunity to request an exemption and engage with Human Resources to explore what if any reasonable accommodations are available for the job you may be offered. • I will not share my vaccination status with hiring managers or interview panels
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        