=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Deputy City Clerk
Salary: $83,478.98 - $100,326.72 YEAR
Location: Madison, WI, WI, 53703
Employer: Madison, City of (WI)
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2025-12-10
Job Type: PERMANENT FULL TIME
Job Number: 2025-00462
Department: City Clerk's Office
Opening Date: 12/11/2025
Closing Date: 1/5/2026 11:59 PM Central
Comp. Group/Range: 18/10

BENEFITS:
  • Health Insurance
  • Dental Insurance
  • Vision Insurance
  • Pet Insurance
  • Life Insurance
  • Income Continuation Insurance (for short and long-term disability)
  • Long Term Care Insurance

Other Benefits
The City offers numerous other benefits and programs for employees, including:
•457(b) deferred compensation plans•Employee Assistance Program•Bus Pass on Madison Metro•Flexible Work Schedules•Employer-paid Training

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===


The City of Madison Clerk's Office is looking to hire two (2) Deputy City Clerk positions! The Deputy City Clerk is responsible for the oversight, direction, and coordination of election and/or licensing programming within the City Clerk’s Office. The position is responsible for high level election related decision making, troubleshooting, and assignment of work, along with managerial responsibilities related to all staff in the office. The work shall include: development and implementation of election processes and procedures; issuance of City and County licenses and permits; maintenance of a centralized information bureau as the custodian of official City of Madison documents; administration and recording of the proceedings of the Common Council; and related policy development and direction. This position may act on behalf of the City Clerk during their absence. This position requires the ability to execute and organize highly technical operations under state statute in coordination with the Office of the City Attorney. Under the general supervision of the City Clerk, this position is responsible for exercising considerable judgment and discretion in meeting program objectives.



IMPORTANT: THERE IS ONE (1) SUPPLEMENTAL ESSAY QUESTION ON THE JOB POSTING.
YOU MUST ATTACH YOUR ANSWER IN THE ATTACHMENTS SECTION OF YOUR APPLICATION. 
(To view the question, click on the supplemental question tab OR view the bottom section of the job bulletin)
**APPLICATIONS RECEIVED WITHOUT ATTACHED ESSAY RESPONSE WILL BE ELIMINATED FROM CONSIDERATION.

Employees may be eligible for loan forgiveness through the Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program.

Black, Indigenous, people of color, women, trans, nonbinary, and individuals with disabilities are encouraged to apply. We value the unique blend of lived experiences and diverse perspectives that comes from non-traditional education pathways and the variety of transferrable skills each candidate brings to the table. We value diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging. Even if every item on the job posting doesn’t match your experience perfectly, we encourage you to apply and share how your skills and experience can best serve our community.

*Stated salary will receive a 3% wage increase effective 12/21/25.

Plan, direct, coordinate, and manage the equitable implementation of the programs, operations and services of the Clerk’s Office. 
Manage a diverse professional and administrative staff. Provide for effective employee relations. Maintain a positive work environment that welcomes and supports a diverse staff. Ensure effective hiring, training, safety, evaluation, and change management programs.
Develop, implement, and evaluate policies and procedures to promote excellence and compliance with applicable local, state and federal regulations. Oversee organizational functionality and make changes to enhance efficiency of operations.
Manage the administration of systems to track office performance, operations, and budget. Develop, maintain, and support systems that promote continuous improvement and service delivery.
In collaboration with the Common Council Office, prepare Common Council agendas and proceedings. Maintain the official records of the City and publish ordinances and official notices. 
In collaboration with the Common Council Office, assist in the administration of the City’s legislative tracking system (Legistar). Provide training and direction to other City agencies in relation to the City’s legislative tracking system and legislative process.
Provide staff support for the Police and Fire Commission and the Alcohol License Review Committee. Assist members of the public in connecting with their government.
Oversee all election processes, including preparation, voting, processing of ballots, canvassing, reporting of results, and post-election audits and other checks. Plan and direct all City elections and supervise the registration of voters. Hire, train, and manage election officials. Ensure the staffing and equipping of each polling location. Ensure each polling location has the training and tools needed to make voting accessible for voters with disabilities. Provide accessible and equitable voting options throughout the City for in-person absentee voting. Work with UW-Madison and community partners to facilitate voting. Manage the security of election equipment, ballots, data, and results. Appoint, train, and support the municipal Board of Canvassers to certify municipal election results. Advise and support the Board of Canvassers for the Madison Metropolitan School District. Collect and analyze data on why eligible voters are unable to cast a ballot or have their ballot counted, and develop solutions to address the barriers identified. Provide court testimony, affidavits, and declarations for state and federal court cases regarding voting rights. Provide technical advice and feedback to the Wisconsin Election Commission.  
Direct the issuance of City and County licenses and permits.
Develop and implement the office budget, including assisting the City Clerk in preparing annual budget proposals and monitoring expenditures and identifying resource needs.
Engage in and support public relations activities, including customer relations, media relations, and initiatives such as voter education.
Represent the Clerk’s Office before City committees and the Common Council. Participate in intra/inter-agency committee efforts. Attend various professional and civic meetings and present/discuss various programs.
Develop and maintain a high level of awareness of related professional standards and the effective integration of evolving technologies and methods. Maintain awareness of changes in legislation on both the State and Federal levels. 
Maintain effective cooperative relationships both internally and with other governmental agencies, including with other local and state election administrators to promote and implement best practices. Provide training and guidance to election administrators in Wisconsin and in other states. Advise national organizations on election best practices.
Compile and complete various reports and records to be submitted to County and State agencies in a timely manner.
Direct the staff and functions of the Clerk’s Office in the City Clerk’s absence, and as assigned. Represent the City Clerk at various meetings as assigned.
Oversee community outreach and develop education materials. Ensure ongoing maintenance of the agency website and social media content.
Perform related work as required.

Two (2) years of directly related supervisory or team leadership experience incorporating substantive involvement in clerk's office statutory responsibilities. 

Bachelor's degree. 

OR

Four (4) years of directly related supervisory experience incorporating substantive involvement in clerk's office statutory responsibilities. 

OR

Four (4) years of experience in the following:
Principles and practices of public administration relative to local government.
Governing election law and electoral principles and practices.
Record management principles and practices incorporating appropriate technological applications.
Principles and practices of public/business administration consistent with the management of a city department, including the dynamics of policy development, sustainability, budgeting, resource planning, etc.
Computer software applicable to the duties of the position; and
Two (2) years of experience in the following:
Full range of supervisory principles and practices, labor relations and personnel management.



The City of Madison strives to provide exceptional customer service to all its residents and visitors. Therefore, successful candidates will have demonstrated ability to work effectively with multicultural communities.

For a complete list of the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities, please see the classification specification.

Ability to meet the transportation needs of the position.
Ability to obtain notary public certification.
Certification through the Wisconsin Municipal Clerk Program is required within three (3) years.
The employee will be expected to attend meetings and provide presentations outside the normal work schedule, including evenings and weekends.


Physical Requirements:
Work is performed in an office environment with flexible desk height and using standard office equipment such as computer, telephone, and copier. Work may involve occasional travel to various City facilities in order to attend various meetings.

The City of Madison offers excellent pay and benefits for employees. City Ordinances, handbooks, and labor contracts provide specifics; the description here is not to be considered a binding statement but offers an informal summary. CompensationThe City of Madison strives to pay competitive wages. View the current salary schedules for pay for all classifications. Employees receive increases based on tenure with the City. Benefits The City offers a competitive benefits package, including a generous leave package, a variety of insurance options, and non-traditional benefits such as optional pet insurance, a bus pass for all employees, and the possibility of flexible work schedules. A brief summary of benefits is listed below. Please visit our website for more information.LeaveVacation is earned upon starting employment and can be used after completion of probation. The general vacation schedule is below. 0-3 years           10 work days of vacationAfter 3 years      12-1/2 daysAfter 7 years      15 daysAfter 11 years    17-1/2 daysAfter 15 years    20 daysAfter 19 years    25 daysAfter 27 years    27 days Employees earn 3.5 personal days in addition to vacation. Employees receive eight official paid holidays (New Year's Day, Martin Luther King, Jr. Holiday, Memorial Day, Juneteenth, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving, Christmas Day), as well as 3 paid leave days (the Friday after Thanksgiving, Christmas Eve, New Year's Eve).Employees also earn 13 sick days annually that may accrue to a total of 150 days.Retirement The City of Madison participates in the Wisconsin Retirement System through the State of Wisconsin Department of Employee Trust Funds. Insurance The City of Madison offers a variety of optional insurance programs including:	Health Insurance	Dental Insurance	Vision Insurance	Pet Insurance	Life Insurance	Income Continuation Insurance (for short and long-term disability)	Long Term Care Insurance	 Other Benefits  The City offers numerous other benefits and programs for employees, including:•457(b) deferred compensation plans•Employee Assistance Program•Bus Pass on Madison Metro•Flexible Work Schedules•Employer-paid Training


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have within a city clerk's office?
        
        
                No experience
                Some, but less than one (1) year
                One (1) to less than two (2) years
                Two (2) to less than three (3) years
                Three (3) to less than four (4) years
                Four (4) years or more
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have with election administration?
        
        
                No experience
                Some, but less than one (1) year
                One (1) to less than two (2) years
                Two (2) to less than three (3) years
                Three (3) to less than four (4) years
                Four (4) years or more
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        How many years of experience do you in a direct supervision role?
        
        
                No experience
                Some, but less than one (1) year
                One (1) to less than two (2) years
                Two (2) to less than three (3) years
                Three (3) to less than four (4) years
                Four (4) years or more
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have with managing complex programs and projects?
        
        
                No experience
                Some, but less than one (1) year
                One (1) to less than two (2) years
                Two (2) to less than three (3) years
                Three (3) to less than four (4) years
                Four (4) years or more
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        This posting is for two deputy city clerk positions. One deputy clerk will focus solely on elections programs; the other deputy clerk will oversee elections program as well as licensing and administrative programs. Please indicate which type of position you are interested in pursuing:
        
        
                Deputy Clerk for elections programs
                Deputy Clerk for elections, licensing and administrative programs
                Both Deputy Clerk positions
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        PLEASE READ CAREFULLY--YOU WILL BE REQUIRED TO ANSWER THE FOLLOWING SUPPLEMENTAL QUESTIONS AS PART OF YOUR APPLICATION. You can answer the questions using a word processing program and attach as a .docx or .pdf file. You must attach the document in the "Attachments" section of the application or you will not receive further consideration for this position. Your responses will be evaluated on your writing ability including: spelling, grammar and your ability to express your thoughts in a logical fashion. By checking this box, you acknowledge the above and understand that your response is required and failure to attach your essay response will immediately eliminate you from consideration.
        
        
                ACKNOWLEDGED
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Please describe how your training, education and experience with elections or public administration have developed your skills to be successful as a Deputy City Clerk. Please be sure to specifically include any experience with leadership and change management in your response.
        
        
                My one (1) page response is attached in the Attachments section of the application.
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        