=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Research and Policy Analyst
Salary: $71,875.00 - $113,000.00 YEAR
Location: 2134 W Laburnum Avenue, VA, VA, 23219
Employer: City of Richmond
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2025-12-14
Job Type: Full-Time
Job Number: 17M00000011
Department: Office of Elections
Opening Date: 12/15/2025
Closing Date: 1/14/2026 11:59 PM Eastern

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Are you Richmond R.E.A.D.Y? Respect. Equity. Accountability. Diversity…YOU!!!
 
This is an EXCITING time to Join the City of Richmond! We are committed to nurturing talent, fostering growth opportunities, and building strong connections within our workforce. As we continue to make strides to becoming the employer of choice, we are thrilled about the below employee benefit enhancements:

Virginia Retirement System (VRS)
Language Incentive
Referral Bonus
Tuition Assistance Program

The Office of Elections is seeking to hire a Research and Policy Analyst (Legal Advisor). The Research and Policy Analyst (Legal Advisor) position is responsible for conducting thorough research and analysis to support election staff, candidates, political committees and other entities throughout the election cycle.  The position helps ensure compliance with state and local election laws related to candidate qualifications, ballot access, filing requirements, and campaign documentation. The role will also help draft policies and procedures to ensure elections are conducted in compliance with all aspects of local, state and federal law related to election administration, voter registration, and elections, more broadly.

Analysis

Recommend, research and draft changes to proposed legislation and existing laws
Help develop technical, administrative, and policy protocols to ensure compliance with existing election law, policies and regulations.
Conduct research on various research and policy issues
Analyze statistical data
Identify trends, issues, opportunities, and funding resources related to key election policy areas
Help prepare presentations and communicate findings to stakeholders, including policymakers, senior management, and the public
Help represent the City of Richmond Office of Elections at legislative committee meetings, board meetings, hearings, and other public meetings.

 

Candidate Qualification and Filing

Provide guidance to candidates and prospective candidates on eligibility requirements, filing deadlines and required forms.
Accept, review and process candidate filings and campaign finance reports for completeness and accuracy.
Verify candidate information and coordinate with other local election officials and state election officials as needed
Track and maintain candidate records.

Ballot Preparation & Certification

Help prepare and proof candidate ballots for accuracy prior to publication
Help coordinate the ballot order, name formatting and ballot layout requirements.
Assist with candidate withdrawal and disqualification processes when applicable

Compliance & Documentation

Help ensure compliance with federal, state and local election laws, policies and procedures
Maintain candidate files in accordance with records retention laws
Serve as the primary point of contact for FOIA requests

Administrative & Data Management

Enter candidate information into election systems as needed
Create reports for candidate filings, campaign finance reports and ballot status
Keep calendars of statutory deadlines for candidate activities.

MINIMUM TRAINING AND EXPERIENCE: 

Bachelor’s degree in Public Policy, Political Science, Economics, Social Sciences, or a related field
2-5 years of experience in research and evaluation, policy analysis, strategic planning, project management, or a related field
An equivalent combination of training and experience (as approved by the department) may be used to meet the minimum qualifications of the classification




PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS AND TRAINING:

Advanced degree in Law, Public Policy, Public Administration, Public Affairs, Political Science, Economics, Social Sciences, or a related field preferred
Demonstrated experience in legislative and policy analysis and drafting
Significant professional experience in election administration, election law, regulatory compliance, campaign finance, government relations or related policy/research role.
Demonstrated ability to read, interpret, apply and advise on state, local and federal laws and regulations — especially relating to election administration, voter registration, campaign finance, candidate fillings, and voting rights.
Experience interpreting election ruling, statutes and administrative rules 
Prior experience working in a government elections office, regulatory agency, judicial/legal environment, campaign or advocacy organization; familiarity with GIS/mapping or voter-file datasets; multilingual capabilities depending on jurisdiction.




KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, AND ABILITIES: TYPICAL KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, AND ABILITIES: These are a representative sample; position assignments may vary.

Knowledge (some combination of the following):

Policy analysis
Project management
Strategic planning
Quantitative and qualitative research methods
Ethical research practices 
Specialized knowledge of Virginia Freedom of Information Act laws and procedures
Knowledge of the interconnection between the Richmond City Office of Elections and other agencies, including but not limited to, other local registrars and electoral boards, the Virginia Department of Elections, the Election Assistance Commission, the Federal Voting Assistance Program, the Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles, and the Library of Virginia
Knowledge of the city’s and state’s regulatory processes


Skills (some combination of the following):

Strong analytical and critical thinking skills
Proficiency in statistical software (e.g., SPSS, R, Stata) and data analysis tools
Proficiency in use of word processing, spreadsheet and presentation software
Excellent written and verbal communication skills.
Ability to synthesize complex information and present it clearly
Strong organizational and project management skills


Abilities (some combination of the following):

Problem-solve and be detail oriented
Work independently and as part of a team
Adapt to changing priorities and deadlines
Maintain confidentiality



 

Equal Employment Opportunity Statement

The City of Richmond provides equal employment opportunities to all employees and applicants for employment and prohibits discrimination and harassment of any type without regard to race, color, religion, age, sex, national origin, disability status, genetics, protected veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, or any other characteristic protected by federal, state or local laws.

The City of Richmond is committed to the full inclusion of all qualified individuals. As part of this commitment, the City of Richmond will ensure that persons with disabilities are provided with reasonable accommodations. If you require reasonable accommodations under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) to participate in the job application and/or the interview process, please contact Jessica McKenzie, Human Resources Manager by email at Jessica.McKenzie@RVA.GOV.

This policy applies to all terms and conditions of employment, including recruitment, hiring, placement, promotion, termination, layoff, transfer, leaves of absence, compensation and training.

 

The City of Richmond Values Veterans. We are an official V3 Certified Company.

The City of Richmond is a proud partner with the US Army Partnership for Your Success PaYS Program.

 

With over 4,000 employees, the City of Richmond is an "Employer of Choice" among cities throughout the nation. The City strives to hire and retain employees who bring dedication and talent to the workforce. Offering a competitive, cost effective, and quality benefits package is one element of an "Employer of Choice". The City offers a full range of benefit programs from initial hire through retirement. Please visit our Web site for details.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        5-point veteran's must have been discharged under honorable conditions and had one of the following:
Active duty in the Armed Forces of the United States, in a war, or during the period 4/28/52-7/1/55 or active duty for more than 180 consecutive days other than for training, any part of which occurred during the period beginning 2/1/55 and 10/14/76 or active duty during the Gulf War sometime between 8/2/90 - 1/2/92 or active duty in a campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge has been authorized or active duty for which more than 180 consecutive days other than for training, any part of which occurred during the period beginning 9/11/2001 and ending on the date prescribed by the Presidential proclamation or by the law as the last date of operation Iraqi Freedom. Do any of these apply?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        10-point compensable veteran. You must have an existing compensable service-connected disability of 10 percent or more. Other 10-point veteran include disabled veteran or a veteran who was awarded the Purple Heart for wound or injuries received in action, veteran's widow or widower who has not remarried, wife or husband of a veteran who has a service-connected disability, widowed, divorced or separated mother of an ex-service son or daughter who died in action, or who is totally and permanently disabled. Do any of these apply?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Which answer best describes your highest level of education?
        
        
                High School Diploma/ GED
                Some college
                Associate's Degree
                Bachelor's Degree
                Advanced Degree
                None of the above
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Are you currently a City of Richmond employee?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        What best describes your years of experience in research and evaluation, policy analysis, strategic planning, and project management?
        
        
                One to two years of experience
                Three to four years of experience
                Five or more years of experience
                No experience in these areas
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        What best describes your experience with interpreting election rulings, statutes and administrative rules?
        
        
                One to two years of experience
                Three to four years of experience
                Five or more years of experience
                No experience in these areas
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        What best describes your experience working in a government elections office, regulatory agency, judicial/legal environment or campaign or advocacy organziation?
        
        
                One to two years of experience
                Three to four years of experience
                Five or more years of experience
                No experience in these areas
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        