=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Program Coordinator II (Voter Registration) - Recorder&#39;s Office (Prescot)
Salary: $25.74 - $32.82 HOUR
Location: Prescott, AZ, AZ, 86305
Employer: Yavapai County Government
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2025-12-04
Job Type: Full Time - Non Exempt
Job Number: 202500397
Department: Recorder's Office
Opening Date: 12/05/2025
Closing Date: 1/1/2026 5:00 PM Arizona

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===




Under general supervision, performs professional and administrative work of moderate to considerable difficulty in overseeing day-to-day operations of programs, projects, and services for the department.

Provides customer service, answer questions regarding policies, codes, rules, and regulations.
Conducts research, compiles and analyzes data to make recommendations as needed.
Performs a variety of administrative tasks, including preparing reports, records, correspondence, and other documents.
Develops operational procedures and policies for review by management; develops, implements and/or oversees training programs for staff and/or volunteers.
Provides direction, guidance, and leadership to staff as needed.
Evaluates program effectiveness, and ensures compliance with applicable policies, rules and/or regulations.
Maintains office records/files and databases that may include confidential and sensitive information.
Prepares and presents information as required by department. 
Coordinates projects and programs as assigned and advises department of progress, timelines, work status, and plans.
Participates in administrative meetings and trainings required by County, State, department, and/or other third-party partners. 
Performs other job-related duties as assigned.

Education:
Associate degree in business administration, public administration, management, behavioral science, or related field.
 
Experience:
A minimum of two (2) years of progressively responsible administrative and/or program/project management experience. 

An equivalent combination of directly related work experience and education may substitute for the degree requirement on a year-per-year basis.
 
Additional Requirements:
Must possess a valid Arizona driver’s license.

Required Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities: 
 
 Knowledge of:


Relevant federal, state, and county codes, laws, and regulations.
Business English, spelling, grammar, punctuation, and composition.
Clerical office practices and procedures.
Research techniques and report writing.
Current Microsoft Office software.
Filing and recordkeeping.
 
 Skill in:

Communicating effectively verbally, in writing, orally in a face-to-face setting, and by telephone with the public and employees.
Public speaking and presentations.
Organization and adherence to detail.
Establishing and maintaining effective working relationships with employees, other agencies, and the public. 
 
Ability to:

Perform work in an accurate, neat, and thorough manner and follows all applicable policies.
Exercise critical thinking and refer to regulatory and professional standards in making decisions.   
Identify priority concerns, develop, and implement appropriate responses.  
Work independently on moderate to complex projects/programs with minimal supervision.
Exercise good judgement and discretion in accomplishing objectives.
Keep management informed of key operating issues affecting the department.
Remain current in knowledge required to perform assigned duties.
Handle confidential matters and maintain discretion.
Act with courtesy, tact, and diplomacy.
 
 
Work Environment:
The work environment is associated with an office. The work area is adequately lighted, heated or cooled and ventilated.
 
Physical Requirements:
Ability to sit or stand for extended periods of time. Sufficient vision to read printed materials and a computer screen; hearing and speech ability to communicate effectively in-person and telephonically. Capable of frequent repetitive movement of arms, fingers, and wrists. Ability to lift up to 15 pounds.
 
Additional Job Information:
FLSA: Non-Exempt 
Grade: 9
Classification: Classified 
Safety Sensitive: No

EMPLOYEE BENEFITSYavapai County Government offers a comprehensive employee benefits package toFull-Time employees working 30 or more hours per week that includes but is not limited to:·  10 Paid Holidays Per Year·  Annual Leave·  Employee Assistance Program (EAP)·  Health Care Insurance – Medical, Dental, Vision·  Life Insurance·  Long-Term & Short-Term Disability·  Retirement Plans·  Sick Leave·  Tuition Reimbursement Program ELECTIVE COVERAGE·  457 Deferred Compensation Program  ·  Dependent Health Care Insurance - Medical, Dental, Vision·  Flexible Spending Account (FSA)·  Health Savings Account (HSA)·  Short-Term Disability                                                                ·  Supplemental Life (for employees & dependents) PLEASE NOTE·      Part-Time, Temporary and Seasonal employees accrue Sick Leave based on hours worked.·      Part-Time employees have limited benefits available.·      Temporary and Seasonal employees are not eligible to accrue Annual Leave.Click here to view our benefits summary. (Download PDF reader) 


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Do you have an Associate degree in business administration, public administration, management, behavioral science, or related field?
An equivalent combination of directly related work experience and education may substitute for the degree requirement on a year-per-year basis
        
        
                Yes
                No
                I DO NOT have an Associate degree in business administration, public administration, management, behavioral science, or related field BUT i have an equivalent combination of directly related work experience and education to substitute for the degree requirement on a year-per-year basis
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Do you have a minimum of two (2) years of progressively responsible administrative and/or program/project management experience?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        