=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Voter Services Manager
Salary: $26.84 - $41.49 HOUR
Location: 2134 W Laburnum Avenue, VA, VA, 23219
Employer: City of Richmond
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2025-12-14
Job Type: Full-Time
Job Number: 17M00000019
Department: Office of Elections
Opening Date: 12/15/2025
Closing Date: 1/14/2026 11:59 PM Eastern

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Are you Richmond R.E.A.D.Y? Respect. Equity. Accountability. Diversity…YOU!!!
 
This is an EXCITING time to Join the City of Richmond! We are committed to nurturing talent, fostering growth opportunities, and building strong connections within our workforce. As we continue to make strides to becoming the employer of choice, we are thrilled about the below employee benefit enhancements:

Virginia Retirement System (VRS)
Language Incentive
Referral Bonus
Tuition Assistance Program

The City of Richmond Office of Elections is seeking a highly organized and knowledgeable Voter Services Manager. The purpose of the position is to provide management of and administrative assistance for all aspects of voter registration, and absentee services to the Office of the General Registrar. This includes voter registration procedures and the sequence of absentee ballot processes during an election cycle. The incumbent must be able to multi-task and demonstrate sound, independent judgement. The incumbent must have the ability to prioritize, organize and evaluate work; determine appropriate action and adjust workloads according to deadlines and other program requirements. Experience in dealing effectively with a broad range of people in a business environment, with members of the community and with the public is essential. The incumbent in this position will be required to work within adhere to, interpret, apply and explain federal and state regulations, policies and procedures and respond in writing and verbally.

Voter Services

Supervise voter registration activities, including processing applications, maintaining accurate voter rolls, and handling address or status updates
Oversee voter list maintenance in compliance with state and federal laws (e.g., NVRA, HAVA)
Respond to voter registration inquiries and ensure high quality customer service

Absentee Services
Manage absentee ballot requests, mailings, tracking and returns
Ensures all absentee ballots are securely handled and processed according to law
Develop, implement, and maintain efficient workflows for processing absentee ballots, ensuring accuracy, transparency, and adherence to office policies.

Compliance and Legal Knowledge
Help ensure full compliance with all federal and state laws pertaining to voter registration and absentee voting, including updates to regulations and best practices.

MINIMUM TRAINING AND EXPERIENCE: 


Bachelor's degree in public administration, business management, organizational development, project management or a related field
Two years of experience in a public setting performing related duties; and 1 year of supervisory experience: or, High school diploma and five years of progressively responsible administrative experience in a voter registration or election office, or closely related field; and three years of supervisory experience.
An equivalent combination of training and experience (as approved by the department) that provides evidence that the applicant possesses the necessary Applicant traits.
Prior experience in voter registration or elections preferred. In depth knowledge of voting equipment is essential.
The successful candidate must be a resident of the Commonwealth of Virginia and qualified to register to vote at the time of appointment.
Valid Motor Vehicle Driver's license.




PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS AND TRAINING: - 

Significant professional experience in election administration, election law, campaign finance, candidate petitions, regulatory compliance, government relations or a related policy/research role.
Prior experience working in a government elections office, regulatory agency, judicial/legal environment, campaign or advocacy organization; familiarity with GIS/mapping or voter-file datasets; multilingual capabilities depending on jurisdiction.
Proven experience in training and development, team management, or similar roles, ideally within a public sector or election setting.
Comprehensive understanding of federal and state voting laws and the ability to interpret and apply these laws accurately.
Strong organizational, communication, and leadership skills, with the ability to manage a team and foster a positive work environment.
Proficiency with data management and reporting, including experience with spreadsheets and office software.



KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, AND ABILITIES: TYPICAL KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, AND ABILITIES: These are a representative sample; position assignments may vary.

Knowledge (some combination of the following):

Policy analysis
Project management
Strategic planning
Quantitative and qualitative research methods relevant to area of interest
Ethical research practices 


Skills (some combination of the following):

Strong analytical and critical thinking skills
Proficiency in statistical software (e.g., SPSS, R, Stata) and data analysis tools
Excellent written and verbal communication skills.
Ability to synthesize complex information and present it clearly
Strong organizational and project management skills


Abilities (some combination of the following):

Problem-solve and be detail oriented
Work independently and as part of a team
Adapt to changing priorities and deadlines
Maintain confidentiality



 

Equal Employment Opportunity Statement

The City of Richmond provides equal employment opportunities to all employees and applicants for employment and prohibits discrimination and harassment of any type without regard to race, color, religion, age, sex, national origin, disability status, genetics, protected veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, or any other characteristic protected by federal, state or local laws.

The City of Richmond is committed to the full inclusion of all qualified individuals. As part of this commitment, the City of Richmond will ensure that persons with disabilities are provided with reasonable accommodations. If you require reasonable accommodations under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) to participate in the job application and/or the interview process, please contact Jessica McKenzie, Human Resources Manager by email at Jessica.McKenzie@RVA.GOV.

This policy applies to all terms and conditions of employment, including recruitment, hiring, placement, promotion, termination, layoff, transfer, leaves of absence, compensation and training.

 

The City of Richmond Values Veterans. We are an official V3 Certified Company.

The City of Richmond is a proud partner with the US Army Partnership for Your Success PaYS Program.

 

With over 4,000 employees, the City of Richmond is an "Employer of Choice" among cities throughout the nation. The City strives to hire and retain employees who bring dedication and talent to the workforce. Offering a competitive, cost effective, and quality benefits package is one element of an "Employer of Choice". The City offers a full range of benefit programs from initial hire through retirement. Please visit our Web site for details.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        5-point veteran's must have been discharged under honorable conditions and had one of the following:
Active duty in the Armed Forces of the United States, in a war, or during the period 4/28/52-7/1/55 or active duty for more than 180 consecutive days other than for training, any part of which occurred during the period beginning 2/1/55 and 10/14/76 or active duty during the Gulf War sometime between 8/2/90 - 1/2/92 or active duty in a campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge has been authorized or active duty for which more than 180 consecutive days other than for training, any part of which occurred during the period beginning 9/11/2001 and ending on the date prescribed by the Presidential proclamation or by the law as the last date of operation Iraqi Freedom. Do any of these apply?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        10-point compensable veteran. You must have an existing compensable service-connected disability of 10 percent or more. Other 10-point veteran include disabled veteran or a veteran who was awarded the Purple Heart for wound or injuries received in action, veteran's widow or widower who has not remarried, wife or husband of a veteran who has a service-connected disability, widowed, divorced or separated mother of an ex-service son or daughter who died in action, or who is totally and permanently disabled. Do any of these apply?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Are you a current City of Richmond employee?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Which answer best describes your highest level of education?
        
        
                High School Diploma/ GED
                Some college
                Associate's Degree
                Bachelor's Degree
                Advanced Degree
                None of the above
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        What best describes your years of experience in training and development or team management within the  public sector or elections setting?
        
        
                One to two years of experience
                Three to four years of experience
                Five or more years of experience
                No experience in these areas
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        What best describes your years of experience working in a government elections office, regulatory agency, judicial/legal environment or campaign or advocacy organization?
        
        
                One to two years of experience
                Three to four years of experience
                Five or more years of experience
                No experience in these areas
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        How many years have you worked in a supervisory role?
        
        
                Less than one year of experience
                One to two years of experience
                Three or more years of experience
                No supervisory experience
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        