=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Specialist
Salary: $40,048.00 - $68,081.00 YEAR
Location: New Hanover County, NC, NC, 28403
Employer: New Hanover County
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2026-06-11
Job Type: Full-Time
Job Number: 202600162
Department: BOARD OF ELECTIONS
Opening Date: 06/12/2026
Closing Date: 6/23/2026 11:59 PM Eastern

BENEFITS:
  • Employer paid 401k deferred compensation contributions (5% for sworn law enforcement and 2.5% for all other benefits eligible positions);
  • Retirement plan through the NC Retirement system;
  • Paid sick and personal leave + 13 paid holidays per year;
  • Paid parental leave;
  • Paid community services leave to give back to our community;
  • Education leave to obtain a degree within your line of work;
  • Medical, dental, vision insurance + many other insurance options;
  • Employee assistance program;
  • 100% employer paid long term disability;
  • Onsite, employer-paid health and wellness center which includes a nurse practitioner and physical therapist;
  • Professional development trainings & leadership initiatives;
  • Opportunities to make a difference in your community;
  • And so much more!

Benefit options for eligible positions include medical, dental, elective supplemental insurance options including short-term disability, vision, flexible spending accounts, voluntary term life, cancer, accident, and critical illness policies.   Employees who elect medical and dental insurance within the specified timelines provided during on-boarding, will have coverage effective on their date of hire. For more information about New Hanover County benefit options, including our benefit rates, please click here.
Please check out our careers page at www.nhcgov.com/careers for more information on why New Hanover County is a great place to work.
Note:
All positions listed as temporary, casual part time, volunteer, and intern  are not eligible to receive benefits.
P
art-time position with fewer than 20 scheduled hours per week will not include benefits.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

New Hanover County Board of Elections is seeking an Elections Specialist to be part of the team planning, conducting, and monitoring of all federal, state, and municipal elections in New Hanover County.  

The Election Speciialist will support the mission of the New Hanover County Board of Elections to provide the highest level of professional standards to ensure accurate, honest, and fair elections through accountability and integrity and to provide all citizens our services in the most efficient, effective, and timely manner.

Essential Duties:

Supports the Education and Communication division, directly aiding the efforts of the Program Manager and Education & Communication Coordinator through the following methods:
Assist with recruiting, onboarding, and maintaining records for Election Officials, and help support engagement and retention efforts.
Support the coordination and delivery of training sessions for Election Officials
Help maintain Election Official assignment calendars and assist with the appointment process for election roles.
Provide support for planning and executing community outreach events, including maintaining the outreach and engagement calendar and updating online materials.
Assist with preparing and delivering public educational presentations and demonstrations of voting equipment as needed.
Support communications work such as monitoring social media, preparing materials, updating website content, and helping draft press releases and public information materials.
Assist with media-related tasks including responding to inquiries, gathering information for interviews, and supporting ongoing public relations activities.
Assists with greeting citizens at the office front desk, helping with questions, processing voter registration cards, and creating voter photo ID cards
Maintains election files and voter registration records; enters and scans voter registration documents to register new voters; and updates existing registrations.  
Works with seasonal temporary workers to carry out program standards and objectives.  
Corresponds with and assists voters with elections related processes.  
Maintains cross-training with responsibilities of other identified Elections staff members.
Stays abreast of changes in election news, laws, maps, regulations, and procedures.
Maintains all required licenses and certifications by attending required continuing education courses.
Performs work with regular and predictable attendance consistently meeting the scheduling needs as required by the county
Performs work during emergency/disaster situations. 
Performs other duties of a similar nature or level.  

KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, OR ABILITIES 
Knowledge of Chapter 163 of the NC General Statutes; NC Campaign Reporting Guidelines and Regulations; voting machines and counting equipment; New Hanover County geography; and U.S. Bureau of the Census maps. 

Skilled in reading maps; using voting machines, counting equipment, computers, and related software applications; and communication, interpersonal skills as applied to interaction with coworkers, supervisor, the general public, etc. sufficient to exchange or convey information and to receive work direction. 


New Hanover County is dedicated to the recruitment and recognition of a talented and diverse workforce that is committed to public service. Our shared values of professionalism, innovation, equity, integrity, stewardship, and accountability guide the way we conduct ourselves and deliver services to our customers. New Hanover County celebrates diversity in our employees’ backgrounds, beliefs, identities, and abilities, while supporting growth opportunities for all. Our talented team has a passion for providing care and services that effect change on the everyday lives of the citizens they encounter. The differences that unite us are a reflection of the community we serve. If this sounds like an organization that models the values you uphold, we invite you to join our team at New Hanover County.  

Living in New Hanover County, NC: 
New Hanover County offers an exceptional quality of life with its picturesque coastal location. Enjoy the stunning beaches, water activities, and a variety of recreational opportunities right at your doorstep. Immerse yourself in the vibrant local culture, indulge in diverse dining experiences, and explore historical landmarks. The county is known for its strong sense of community, excellent schools, and a thriving arts scene. With a focus on good governance and a commitment to customer service, New Hanover County provides an ideal environment for both personal and professional growth. ***

Hours:

Hours are 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Monday through Friday.  Overtime is common and should be anticipated during election-related events.

New Hanover County offers:

Employer paid 401k contributions;
Retirement plan through the NC Retirement system;
Flex time and telework availability, depending on your position;
Paid sick and personal leave + 13 paid holidays per year;
Paid parental leave;
Paid community services leave to give back to our community;
Education leave to obtain a degree within your line of work; 
Medical, dental, and vision insurance + many other insurance options; 
Onsite, employer-paid health and wellness center;
Professional development trainings & leadership initiatives; 
Opportunities to make a difference in your community;
And so much more!

 Please check out our careers page at www.nhcgov.com/careersfor more information on why New Hanover County is a great place to work. 




Associate’s Degree in a course of study related to the occupational field, and two (2) years of elections or related experience; or an equivalent combination of training and experience sufficient to successfully perform the essential duties of the specific position as listed above. 


