=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Services Manager
Salary: $99,084.96 - $120,438.48 YEAR
Location: Martinez, CA
Employer: County of Contra Costa
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2023-03-29
Job Type: Permanent Full-Time
Job Number: EBSA-2023A
Department: Clerk - Recorder
Opening Date: 03/29/2023
Closing Date: 4/25/2023 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Exempt
Bargaining Unit: ZA

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Why join Contra Costa County Elections?
 
Contra Costa County has more than 700,000 registered voters and a population of 1.1 million. Located in the San Francisco Bay Area, Contra Costa County offers a great salary and benefits in addition to a collaborative and fast-paced work environment.
 
Our office is vital to our democracy and our community, and we love to help our residents. Our leadership values employee development and engagement, promotes open and transparent communication, prepares us to be a high-performing organization, and recognizes the contributions of others. We connect with the community, listen to them, and provide a critical service that people rely on.
 
We are looking to fill one (1) Elections Services Manager to help support our mission. The incumbent will report directly to the Assistant Registrar, work in collaboration with the Clerk-Recorder-Registrar and executive management team, and interact with leaders in other county departments, state officials, and vendors to carry out essential functions.
 
We are looking for someone who is:

A self-starter. You need to see the overall picture and be able to plan, organize, and prioritize tasks using tact, initiative, prudence, and independent judgment.
A team player. You will be expected to bring balance to the team, foster trust, and instill confidence in your direct reports and the department as a whole.
Customer Focused. You should provide a high level of customer service and strive to improve the voter’s experience and services to County residents.
Accountable. You should take responsibility for your own work and the work of your division, assuring projects are completed within established timelines.
Flexible. You will need to work well under pressure and be adaptable to changing priorities while balancing multiple projects. At times, this can be a high-stress job and the successful candidate must be able to cope and respond appropriately.
A collaborative leader. You will collaborate with multiple units that have interconnected work products to help achieve division goals and should be willing to step in and help other units when needed.
Knowledgeable. You should be experienced in election law, the election process, procedures, timelines, and administration.
 
What you will typically be responsible for:
Overseeing, coordinating, and directing supervisory, permanent, temporary staff, and groups of volunteers 
Setting priorities and goals for work units, creating detailed plans for appropriate staffing, monitoring the progress of multiple overlapping and competing projects, and assuring projects are completed within timelines.
Participating in joint election planning, research, and decision-making activities to accomplish a common goal.
Providing a high level of customer service by effectively dealing with the public, vendors, contractors, voters, and County staff, including conflict resolution.
Ensuring the division and staff operate at the highest levels of transparency, accuracy, and integrity.
Encouraging and facilitating professional growth among staff members.
Leading by example and being a model of behavior for staff.
Identifying and recommending changes in policy to create efficiencies and improve the effectiveness of processes and procedures.
 
A few reasons you might love this job:
Make a difference in our residents’ lives! Serve your community through public service and be a part of providing a critical piece of our democracy.
Be a leader of a highly respected, dynamic Elections team.
Help your staff develop and watch your team grow!  
It will never be boring! There will be opportunities for personal and professional growth and development and different projects to accomplish.
 
A few challenges you might face in this job:
Election deadlines are set by law and code and are not flexible; our office runs on mandated deadlines that must be met. 
During busy Election cycles, all staff are expected to work overtime, including evenings, weekends, and holidays, if needed. Managers may need to work overtime at any time and are offered additional Administrative Leave hours in lieu of overtime pay.
There may be a necessity to step in and perform the duties of subordinate staff in order to meet timelines and prevent delays to other units.



Competencies Required:
 

Coaching & Developing Others: Supporting others in stretching and expanding their capabilities (encourage and foster success and teamwork)
Assessing Talent: Identifying performance capabilities and potential of others
Building & Maintaining Relationships: Establishing rapport and maintaining mutually productive relationships
Displaying Ownership & Accountability: Holding self and others accountable for measurable high-quality, timely, and cost-effective results (organization goals and driving others to achieve them)
Innovation: Imagining and devising new and better ways of doing things
Innovative Problem Solving: Identifying and analyzing problems in order to propose new ways to do business
Professional & Technical Expertise: Applying technical subject matter to the job
Bilingual Communication: Speaking, reading, writing in a second language
Managing Performance: Ensuring superior individual and group performance
Informing: Proactively obtaining and sharing information (open to receiving and sharing information, does not withhold information from the team, communicates the ‘why’ behind these assignments)
Leveraging Technology: Applying technology for improvements in organizational efficiency and effectiveness
Driving Results: Demonstrating concern for achieving or surpassing results against an internal standard of excellence
Business Process Analysis: Defining, assessing, and improving operational processes and workflow (open to identifying new ways to do things, adaptable to change)
Critical Thinking: Analytically and logically evaluating information, propositions, and claims



To read the complete job description, please visit the website, https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/contracosta/classspecs/31658 

The eligible list established from this recruitment may be used to fill future openings for up to six (6) months. 




License Required:  Possession of a valid California Motor Vehicle Operator's License. Out of state Motor Vehicle Operator's license will be accepted during the application process.

Education: Possession of a Bachelor's Degree from an accredited college or university with a major in business, public administration, or a closely related field.

Experience: Three (3) years of full-time, (or the equivalent of full-time), experience performing administrative, budgetary, and personnel, duties; two (2) years of the required experience must have been performing duties related to elections and at least one (1) year must have been in a supervisory capacity.

Substitution for Experience: A Master's degree in business, public administration, or a closely related field may substitute for one (1) year of the required experience. No substitution is permitted for the required supervisory experience.

Substitution for Education: Possession of the California Professional Election Administrator Credential Program (CalPEAC) credential administered by the California Association of Clerks and Election Officials (CACEO); OR possession of the Certified Elections/Registration Administrator Certification (CERA) certification from the National Elections Center may be substituted for one (1) year of the required education.

Additional qualifying experience of the type described above may be substituted for the required education on a year-for-year basis, up to a maximum of four (4) years.

Desirable Qualifications:


Experience with vendor relations, including contract negotiation, accounts payable, and ongoing vendor performance tracking.
Exceptional communication and presentation skills, experience developing and giving presentations.
Experience developing and tracking legislation related to the conduct and administration of elections.
Experience managing intricate projects with multiple steps and stakeholders.
Experience developing and managing budgets and financial data reporting.

Application Filing and Evaluation: Applications will be evaluated to determine which candidates will move forward in the next phase of the recruitment process.  

Online Interview Assessment: Candidates that possess the minimum qualifications will be invited to participate in an online Interview Assessment. The assessment is designed to measure candidates' competencies as they relate to the classification. Candidates must achieve an average passing score of 70% or higher on each of the competencies assessed, as well as an overall passing score of 70% or higher. These may include but are not limited to: Coaching & Developing Others, Displaying Ownership & Accountability, Driving Results, Informing, Business Process Analysis, and Critical Thinking. (Weighted: 100%) 

Hiring Interview: Tentatively Scheduled for the week of 5/26/2023

 

Tentative Dates: 

Online Interview Assessment: 5/8/2023
 
Meeting the minimum qualifications does not guarantee an invitation to participate in the selection process. 
 
The Human Resources Department may change the examination steps noted above in accordance with the Personnel Management Regulations and accepted selection practices.
 
For recruitment-specific questions, please contact Alex Johnson at Alex.Johnson@hrd.cccounty.us  For any technical issues, please contact the GovernmentJobs’ applicant support team for assistance at +1 855-524-5627.


COVID-19 VACCINE REQUIREMENTS
Please note that as of August 24, 2021, Contra Costa County enacted a mandatory COVID-19 vaccine requirement for employees. Proof of full vaccination will be required of all employees, including new hires. The policy requirements can be found here: https://www.contracosta.ca.gov/DocumentCenter/View/72164/2021824-Mandatory-Vaccination-Policy-PDF?bidId=


 CONVICTION HISTORY
After you receive a conditional job offer, you will be fingerprinted, and your fingerprints will be sent to the California Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). The resulting report of your conviction history (if any) will be used to determine whether the nature of your conviction conflicts with the specific duties and responsibilities of the job for which you have received a conditional job offer. If a conflict exists, you will be asked to present any evidence of rehabilitation that may mitigate the conflict, except when federal or state regulations bar employment in specific circumstances. Having a conviction history does not automatically preclude you from a job with Contra Costa County. If you accept a conditional job offer, the Human Resources department will contact you to schedule a fingerprinting appointment.
 
DISASTER SERVICE WORKER
All Contra Costa County employees are designated Disaster Service Workers through state and local law. Employment with the County requires the affirmation of a loyalty oath to this effect. Employees are required to complete all Disaster Service Worker-related training as assigned, and to return to work as ordered in the event of an emergency.


 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
It is the policy of Contra Costa County to consider all applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, ethnicity, age, disability, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity, gender expression, marital status, ancestry, medical condition, genetic information, military or veteran status, or other protected category under the law.



To find more information on Benefits offered by Contra Costa County, please go to https://www.contracosta.ca.gov/1343/Employee-Benefits