=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Administrative Specialist III (Elections Specialist Customer Service Lead)
Salary: $27.09 - $34.47 HOUR
Location: WA 98057-2906, WA, WA, 98104
Employer: King County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2023-04-04
Job Type: Career Service, Full Time, 40 hrs/week
Job Number: 2023RL18675
Department: KCE - King County Elections
Division: Voter Services
Opening Date: 04/04/2023
Closing Date: 4/18/2023 12:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Non-Exempt
Bargaining Unit: F1A : L117-Admin

BENEFITS:
  • Medical, dental, and vision coverage: King County pays 100% of the premiums for eligible employees and family members
  • Life and disability insurance: employees are provided basic coverage and given the opportunity to purchase additional insurance for both the employee and eligible dependents
  • Retirement: King County employees are eligible to participate in a pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems and a 457(b) deferred-compensation plan
  • Transportation program and ORCA transit pass
  • 12 paid holidays each year (plus 2 personal holidays)
  • Generous vacation and paid sick leave
  • Paid parental leave, family and medical leaves, and volunteer leave
  • Flexible Spending Account
  • Wellness programs
  • Onsite gyms and activity centers
  • Employee giving program
  • Employee assistance programs
  • Flexible schedules and telecommuting options, depending on position
  • Training and career development programs

For additional information about employee benefits please visit our
Benefits, Payroll, and Retirement Page
.
This is a general description of the benefits offered to eligible King County employees, and every effort has been made to ensure its accuracy.  If any information on this document conflicts with the provisions of a collective bargaining agreement (CBA), the CBA prevails.  Also, in the event of any incorrect information in this document, applicable laws, policies, rules, CBAs, or official plan documents will prevail.
NOTE:
Benefits for Term Limited Temporary (TLT) or Short Term Temporary (STT) positions, including leave eligibility and/or participation in the pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems, will vary based upon the terms and details of the position. Short Term Temporary positions are not eligible for an ORCA transit pass.
For inquiries about the specifics of this position, please contact the recruiter identified on this job posting.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

This is an amazing opportunity to be engaged in the election process!

 
King County’s Department of Elections is searching for an energetic and resourceful Customer Service Lead who likes to get stuff done. This position combines an exciting environment with the opportunity to cultivate talents and apply a variety of skills. The ideal candidate will thrive in an innovative, fast-paced environment and will not hesitate to roll up both sleeves, work hard, have fun, and get the job done.
 
This position will lead processes, projects, and people within the Customer Service work area of Voter Services.  The person who fills this role will lead our team in providing year-round customer service to internal and external customers communicating election program information and explaining election procedures, guidelines and regulations. This is a great opportunity for a customer service-oriented person with strong communication and interpersonal skills.
 
King County Elections (KCE) manages voter registration and elections for more than 1.4 million voters in King County and is the largest vote-by-mail county in the United States. KCE's mission is to conduct accessible, secure, and accurate elections. As a leader in providing inclusive elections, KCE is focused on three key priorities – (1) continue to test and implement a customized approach to engaging voters and support citizens in exercising their democratic rights, (2) follow-up on audit recommendations, including pro-actively assessing and managing risk, and, and (3) define and build a respectful work environment based on professionalism and collaboration. KCE believes that democracy works best when all voices are heard, and proactively work to remove barriers to ensure all voters can meaningfully participate in our elections. Learn more at www.kingcounty.gov/elections.aspx
  
Who May Apply:  This position is open to the general public and all King County employees. This recruitment may also be used to create a list of candidates to fill current and future career service positions over the next 6 months.
 
Materials Required to Apply: A completed online King County employment Application at www.kingcounty.gov/jobs and a Resume and Cover Letter are required and should be attached before submitting your application.  The cover letter should describe how your skills and experience meet or exceed the requirements of the job.
 
Work Location: The work associated with this position will be performed through a combination of mandatory on-site work with some telecommuting work as needed. The work site for this position is the Elections Building located at 919 SW Grady Way in Renton. The position may also be requested to work at additional off-site locations and registration centers throughout the county.
 
Work Schedule:  This position is subject to the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act and is overtime eligible. The workweek is typically 40 hours per week, Monday through Friday. This position is expected to be able to work during sudden changes to schedule that may include early mornings, late nights, weekends, and holidays during designated election times. Mandatory overtime (including weekends or evenings) will be required during elections and other peak work periods.

Be familiar with current elections laws and policies.
Ensure staff are following policies and procedures.
Improve work processes and prepare procedures and quick reference guides.
Organize and maintain data and statistics, including establishing benchmarks for staff performance expectations for tasks.
Organize and coordinate work activities, prioritizing as needed to meet deadlines.
Assign team tasks and monitor individual and team progress.
Provide direction, assistance, coaching, and training to staff; monitor the quality and completion of work. 
Provide input on the performance of staff and communicate issues/concerns related to staff performance to the supervisor.
Provide timely updates on projects to supervisor including current progress, roadblocks, and asking clarifying questions as needed.
Research and resolve questions, problems or inquiries from staff, citizens, observers and/or stakeholders.
Order, inventory, and prepare supplies. 
Assist in testing of programs or equipment (e.g., VoteWA, dymo printers, accessible voting equipment, etc.) used for areas of responsibility and report any issues or concerns to the supervisor.

Experience providing oversight to a diverse group of workers in a team focused environment. 
Demonstrated ability to provide excellent verbal and written communication including instruction, training, and feedback. 
Work experience that includes maintaining and tracking data and data analysis. 
Experience presenting information to large diverse audiences. 
Demonstrated ability maintaining a professional demeanor and providing timely and reliable customer service. 
Demonstrated skill in handling stressful situations effectively while maintaining composure. 
Experience maintaining confidentiality, while sharing the right information with the appropriate people. 
Demonstrated ability managing quickly changing priorities and quickly changing information. Ability to multi-task in a busy environment. 
Ability to work cooperatively with a variety of individuals in a team environment. 
Demonstrated comfort with the use of Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Word, email and electronic record filing systems to create correspondence and spreadsheets, send and receive information, access and analyze data, and develop reports and outreach materials.
Demonstrated ability to receive feedback with grace and introspection and incorporate it into making meaningful changes. 
Demonstrated ability to learn quickly when facing new situations and opportunities.
Demonstrated ability to approach tasks with energy and a sense of urgency, take on new opportunities, and handle tough situations.
DESIRABLE QUALIFICATIONS: 

Working knowledge of election operations. 
Experience leading or overseeing customer service staff in a call center environment.
Experience with NICE inContact Call Center Programs or other cloud-based contact center platforms.



Travel to work locations throughout King County with limited or no public transportation services is required. A valid Washington State Driver's License is required to operate King County vehicles.
 
Physical Requirements:  The duties in this position are performed in an office setting and may be required to lift at least 25 pounds.  
 
Union Representation: This position is represented by Teamsters, Local 117, Professional & Technical and Administrative Employees.
 
Hybrid Work Environment
The work associated with this position will be performed through a combination of mandatory onsite work complemented with telecommuting work and meetings as needed. Employees must reside in Washington state and within a reasonable distance to their King County worksite to respond to workplace reporting requirements.
 
 Employees will be provided with a County issued laptop and must maintain a workspace with an internet connection (access may be supplemented in some situations) where they can reliably perform work and remain available and responsive during scheduled work hours. Please note that when an employee conducts work that is likely to bring them in contact with another individual, safety precautions are required, including the wearing of masks in some situations. King County is doing its part to reduce the spread of COVID-19 and remains committed to reducing our carbon footprint.
   
 King County has a robust collection of tools and resources to support working remotely. The individual selected for this opportunity will be joining an innovative and progressive team that is redefining how we work as we transition to the department's hybrid environment.  

Forbes recently named King County as one of Washington State's best employers.
            
Together, with leadership and our employees, we're changing the way government delivers service and winning national recognition as a model of excellence. Are you ready to make a difference?  dedicated to serving one of the nation's best places to live, work and play.
   
Guided by our "", we are making King County a welcoming community where every person can thrive. We value diversity, inclusion and belonging in our workplace and workforce. To reach this goal we are committed to workforce equity. Equitable recruiting, support, and retention is how we will obtain the highest quality workforce in our region; a workforce that shares and will help advance our guiding principles--we are one team; we solve problems; we focus on the customer; we drive for results; we are racially just; we respect all people; we lead the way; and we are responsible stewards. We encourage people of all backgrounds and identities to apply, including Native American and people of color, immigrants, refugees, women, LGBTQ+, people living with disabilities, and veterans.
    
King County is an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Employer
No person is unlawfully excluded from employment opportunities based on race, color, religion, national origin, sex (including gender identity, sexual orientation and pregnancy), age, genetic information, disability, veteran status, or other protected class. Our EEO policy applies to all employment actions, including but not limited to recruitment, hiring, selection for training, promotion, transfer, demotion, layoff, termination, rates of pay or other forms of compensation.
 
To Apply 
If you are interested in pursuing this position, please follow the application instructions carefully. If you need this announcement in an alternate language or format, would like to request accommodation or assistance in the application or assessment process or if you have questions please contact your recruiter listed on this job announcement.
   
For more information regarding this recruitment, please contact: 
     Reeshema Lewis
     Sr. HR Business Partner
     Email:  Reeshema.Lewis@kingcounty.gov 