=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Senior Elections Specialist (Logistics)
Salary: $46,360.00 - $78,811.00 YEAR
Location: New Hanover County, NC, NC, 28403
Employer: New Hanover County
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2026-07-14
Job Type: Full-Time
Job Number: 202600176
Department: BOARD OF ELECTIONS
Opening Date: 07/15/2026
Closing Date: 8/5/2026 11:59 PM Eastern

BENEFITS:
  • Employer paid 401k deferred compensation contributions (5% for sworn law enforcement and 2.5% for all other benefits eligible positions);
  • Retirement plan through the NC Retirement system;
  • Paid sick and personal leave + 13 paid holidays per year;
  • Paid parental leave;
  • Paid community services leave to give back to our community;
  • Education leave to obtain a degree within your line of work;
  • Medical, dental, vision insurance + many other insurance options;
  • Employee assistance program;
  • 100% employer paid long term disability;
  • Onsite, employer-paid health and wellness center which includes a nurse practitioner and physical therapist;
  • Professional development trainings & leadership initiatives;
  • Opportunities to make a difference in your community;
  • And so much more!

Benefit options for eligible positions include medical, dental, elective supplemental insurance options including short-term disability, vision, flexible spending accounts, voluntary term life, cancer, accident, and critical illness policies.   Employees who elect medical and dental insurance within the specified timelines provided during on-boarding, will have coverage effective on their date of hire. For more information about New Hanover County benefit options, including our benefit rates, please click here.
Please check out our careers page at www.nhcgov.com/careers for more information on why New Hanover County is a great place to work.
Note:
All positions listed as temporary, casual part time, volunteer, and intern  are not eligible to receive benefits.
P
art-time position with fewer than 20 scheduled hours per week will not include benefits.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

New Hanover County is seeking a Senior Elections Specialist (Logistics). This role is responsible for executing key aspects of the elections administration process, including voting site management, supply management and distribution, and for managing multiple large projects.

The mission of the New Hanover County Board of Elections is to provide the highest level of professional standards to ensure accurate, honest, and fair elections through accountability and integrity and to provide all citizens our services in the most efficient, effective, and timely manner. Serving under the authority of the five-member Board of Elections, this office is responsible for the administration of elections. Responsibilities of the office staff include canvassing of returns, certification of abstracts and certificates for elected offices, administrating candidate filing, campaign finance, voter registration, programming, and maintenance of voting equipment among other critical tasks as appropriately delegated by the Board to the Director under N.C. General Statutes Chapter 163, or by the rules, orders, and directives of the State Board of Elections.
 
The New Hanover County Board of Elections is a fast-paced environment comprised of a team of dedicated professionals who are committed to ensuring safe and fair elections for the citizens of New Hanover County in a non-partisan manner. It is expected that all members of the Board of Elections staff have strong technical skills, an eye for detail, a willingness to ask questions, the ability to multitask and shift priorities seamlessly, and be able to meet the physical demands of their assigned responsibilities.

Position Specific Duties include but are not limited to:



Provides supervisory, administrative, vendor and compliance support for specialized programs within area of assignment;
Schedules and implements programs and ensures contract and statutory compliance;
Maintains office supply inventory, monitors stock levels and places orders with vendors as necessary.
Surveys and inspects potential facilities to be used as polling places.
Evaluates processes and programs and recommends changes in procedures to ensure statutory compliance, which includes maintaining up-to-dates process documentation for all programs that fall within the scope of this position.
Provides technical assistance and automation support for a specific system, to a department or group of users.
Evaluates processes and programs and recommends changes in procedures to ensure statutory compliance, which includes maintaining up-to-dates process documentation for all programs that fall within the scope of this position.
Provides technical assistance and automation support for a specific system, to a department or group of users.
Coordinates voting site logistics, including usage agreements, layout creation, management of contact database, and creation of electioneering documentation.
Completes voting enclosure inspections and precinct surveys to ensure compliance with all Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) standards; completes walk-through tours, takes measurements, photographs the interior and exterior, lifts/moves supplies, and completes required documentation.
Coordinates voting site logistics, including usage agreements, layout creation, management of contact database, and creation of electioneering documentation.
Completes voting enclosure inspections and precinct surveys to ensure compliance with all Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) standards; completes walk-through tours, takes measurements, photographs the interior and exterior, lifts/moves supplies, and completes required documentation.
Coordinates staging, loading, delivery, and pickup of voting equipment with moving company, election staff, IT staff, chief judges, and polling place contacts.
Performs non-technical activities, audits election returns, deploys resources at voting sites, reviews voting sites and identifies issues.
Provides HR support, hires and supervises temporary administrative employees through temporary employment agency.
Trains, schedules, and supervises temporary staff to prepare, pack, distribute, and set up all equipment and supplies.
Assists with budget preparation and monitoring and prepares reports and expense forecasts.
Performs work with regular and predictable attendance consistently meeting the scheduling needs as required by the county.
Performs work during emergency/disaster situations.
Performs other duties of a similar nature or level. 
Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities


Knowledge of principles and practices related to the area of assignment; applicable local, state, and federal statutes; Specifically, N.C. General Statute Chapter 163, as well as the rules, orders and directives of the State Board of Elections; basic knowledge of logistics and supply change management; basic human resources principles; Basic finance principles.

Skill in using a computer and related software programs; using general office equipment; managing databases; preparing formal documents and reports; assessing client needs; preparing and creating schedules; developing and implementing programs; supervising and training employees, volunteers, and clients; communication, interpersonal skills as applied to interaction with coworkers, supervisor, the general public, etc. sufficient to exchange or convey information and to receive work direction.



New Hanover County is dedicated to the recruitment and recognition of a talented and diverse workforce that is committed to public service. Our shared values of professionalism, innovation, equity, integrity, stewardship and accountability guide the way we conduct ourselves and deliver services to our customers. Supported by the work of our Office of Diversity and Equity, New Hanover County celebrates diversity in our employees’ backgrounds, beliefs, identities, and abilities, while supporting growth opportunities for all. Our talented team has a passion for providing care and services that effect change on the everyday lives of the citizens they encounter. The differences that unite us are a reflection of the community we serve. If this sounds like an organization that models the values you uphold, we invite you to join our team at New Hanover County.


* * * *
Hours:
8:00 AM - 5:00 PM, Monday - Friday.  Overtime is common and should be anticipated during election-related events.
Must be available to report for emergency work assignment during emergency situations.

Employment Type:
Full-time, non-exempt

Salary Information:
The hiring range for this position is $46,360 to $62,585  annually plus a competitive benefits package. Salary will be determined based on qualifications, internal equity, budget, and market considerations.




Required Education and Experience: 
Associate’s Degree and three (3) years of related experience in logistics or supply chain management; or an equivalent combination of training and experience sufficient to successfully perform the essential duties of the specific position as listed above.

Must be able to perform the physical responsibilities required by this position unaided, or with the assistance of a reasonable accommodation. These physical tasks include: the ability to remain standing/move about the different work spaces that include both indoor and outdoor locations, move/transport boxes and equipment weighing up to 50 pounds, position oneself to maintain equipment, computers, cords and other materials under desks and along floors and walls.

Valid driver's license (from any state) and good driving record required at time of application. 
Valid North Carolina driver’s license required by first date of employment with good driving record.

Applicant Information:
After the closing date for this position, applications will be screened by Human Resources. Applicants referred to the department will receive an email requesting important information pertinent to the position applied for. All updates regarding an application can be viewed through your applicant portal.
