=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Administrative Specialist III (Ballot Collection Lead)
Salary: $27.09 - $34.47 HOUR
Location: WA 98057-2906, WA, WA, 98104
Employer: King County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2023-05-16
Job Type: zzDNU_Special Duty Assign or Term Ltdt Temp (TLT)
Job Number: 2023RL19030
Department: KCE - King County Elections
Division: Election Services
Opening Date: 05/16/2023
Closing Date: 6/19/2023 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Non-Exempt
Bargaining Unit: F1A : L117-Admin

BENEFITS:
  • Excellent medical, dental, and vision coverage options: King County provides eligible employees with options, so they can decide what’s best for themselves and their eligible dependents
  • Life and disability insurance: employees are provided basic coverage and given the opportunity to purchase additional insurance for both the employee and eligible dependents
  • Retirement: eligible King County employees may participate in a pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems and a 457(b) deferred-compensation plan
  • Transportation program and ORCA transit pass
  • 12 paid holidays each year plus two personal holidays
  • Generous vacation and paid sick leave
  • Paid parental, family and medical, and volunteer leaves
  • Flexible Spending Account
  • Wellness programs
  • Onsite activity centers
  • Employee Giving Program
  • Employee assistance programs
  • Flexible schedules and telecommuting options, depending on position
  • Training and career development programs

For additional information about employee benefits, visit our
Benefits, Payroll, and Retirement Page
.
This is a general description of the benefits offered to eligible King County employees, and every effort has been made to ensure its accuracy.  If any information on this document conflicts with the provisions of a collective bargaining agreement (CBA), the CBA prevails.
NOTE:
Benefits for Term Limited Temporary (TLT) or Short Term Temporary (STT) positions, including leave eligibility and/or participation in the pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems, will vary based upon the terms and details of the position. Short Term Temporary positions are not eligible for an ORCA transit pass.
For inquiries about the specifics of this position, please contact the recruiter identified on this job posting.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

This is an amazing opportunity to be engaged in the election process!

This benefits-eligible Term-Limited Temporary (TLT) position is anticipated to last up to two years. A Special Duty Assignment may be considered for King County Career Service employees who have passed their initial probationary period.
 
King County Department of Elections is searching for an energetic and resourceful professional to serve as Ballot Collection Lead for the Elections Services Division. Under the direction of the Ballot Collection & Logistics Supervisor, this position will provide logistical support for ballot collection, fleet, and warehouse tasks and lead processes, projects, and temporary staff.  With nearly 80 ballot drop box locations throughout King County, this is a work group that continues to grow and evolve.  This is a great opportunity for a detail-oriented person with warehouse/receiving, data entry, and strong interpersonal skills.  The Ballot Collection Lead position combines an exciting, fast-paced environment with the opportunity to cultivate talents and apply a variety of skills. The ideal candidate will thrive in an innovative, fast-paced environment and will not hesitate to roll up both sleeves, work hard, have fun, and get the job done.
 
King County Elections (KCE) manages voter registrations and elections for more than 1.4 million voters in King County, one of the largest vote-by-mail counties in the United States. KCE's mission is to conduct accessible, secure, and accurate elections.  As a leader in providing inclusive elections, KCE is focused on core values of accuracy, equity, integrity, service, teamwork, and transparency. The team at KCE is committed to ensuring all King County voters can get registered, cast their ballot, and make their voices heard. Learn more at www.kingcounty.gov/elections.aspx  

Who May Apply:  This position is open to all qualified applicants.
 
Work Location:  The work site for this position is the Elections Building located at 919 SW Grady Way in Renton. The work associated with this position will be performed through a combination of mandatory on-site work supplemented by telecommuting.

Work Schedule:  This position is subject to the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act and is overtime eligible. The standard workweek for this position is Monday through Friday, 40 hours per week, Monday through Friday.   The position is expected to be able to work during sudden changes to the schedule that may include early mornings, late nights, weekends, and holidays during designated election times. Mandatory overtime (including weekends or evenings) will be required during elections and other peak work periods.
 
Required Materials: A completed online King County employment Application at www.kingcounty.gov/jobs and a Resume and Cover Letter are required and should be attached before submitting your application.  The cover letter should describe how your skills and experience meet or exceed the requirements of the job.

King County Elections believes in working in a very agile working environment. Creating a team that delivers now and in the future is very important. There may be various job duties that you could be assigned to including:



Using established expectations and measurement guidelines, assist in developing the expected returns forecast and propose staffing and ballot collection methods for each election. 
Distribute workload among short-term temporary employees, provide direction and training, and monitor the quality and completion of work. 
Assist in establishing work methods and recommending changes in workload and procedures to improve work processes. 
Organize and coordinate work activities, assist in employee selection, and provide input on the performance of staff. 
Provide direction to driving teams and drop box closers, including assigning teams, training and dispatching workgroups, ballot security during transit, and troubleshooting emergent issues. 
Assist with drop box collection and closing needs including box integrity and maintenance, election night security and supplies. 
Interpret established policies, procedures, and regulations to employees and customers. 
Research and resolve questions, problems, or inquiries from staff, citizens, and stakeholders. 
May also provide assistance with ballot delivery, proofing the Voter's pamphlet, performing data entry, retrieving and editing records, and providing excellent customer service.

Experience providing oversight to a diverse group of workers in a team-focused environment. 
Demonstrated ability to provide excellent verbal and written communication including instruction, training, and feedback. 
Work experience that includes maintaining and tracking data, data analysis, and designing and maintaining data sources. 
Experience presenting information to large diverse audiences. 
Demonstrated ability maintaining a professional demeanor and providing timely and reliable customer service preferably in a public environment. 
Demonstrated skill in handling stressful situations effectively while maintaining composure. 
Experience maintaining confidentiality, while sharing the right information with the appropriate people. 
Demonstrated ability managing quickly changing priorities and quickly changing information. Ability to assess the need for a change of course and then implement the adjustment clearly and decisively.
Experience in problem solving, research, analysis and assessing information requiring initiative and a self-starter. 
Ability to multi-task and work in a busy environment with a sense of urgency, high energy, and enthusiasm. 
Ability to work cooperatively with a variety of individuals in a team environment. 
Demonstrated comfort with the use of Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Word, email and electronic record filing systems to create correspondence and spreadsheets, send and receive information, access and analyze data, and develop reports and outreach materials. 
DESIRABLE QUALIFICATIONS:
   

Knowledge and proficient use of routing or logistical software (ESRI Workforce, Onfleet, RoadWarrier, etc.). 
Experience with Microsoft Office SharePoint and Teams. 
Experience with dispatch processes. 
Working knowledge of election operations.




SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION:

Travel to work locations throughout King County with limited or no public transportation services is required. A valid Washington State Driver's License is required to operate King County vehicles.  A final offer of employment will be contingent upon review of an official Washington State Driving Abstract demonstrating a good driving record.
 
PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS:  The duties in this position are performed in an office setting and may be required to lift and/or move at least 25 pounds independently and up to 50 pounds in a team setting. Must have the ability to bend, kneel, stand, reach, climb, stoop, and squat.
 
UNION: This position is represented by Teamsters, Local 117, Professional & Technical and Administrative Employees.
 
Hybrid Work Environment
The work associated with this position will be performed through a combination of mandatory onsite work complemented with telecommuting work and meetings as needed. Employees must reside in Washington state and within a reasonable distance to their King County worksite to respond to workplace reporting requirements.
 
Employees will be provided with a County issued laptop and must maintain a workspace with an internet connection (access may be supplemented in some situations) where they can reliably perform work and remain available and responsive during scheduled work hours. Please note that when an employee conducts work that is likely to bring them in contact with another individual, safety precautions are required, including the wearing of masks in some situations. King County is doing its part to reduce the spread of COVID-19 and remains committed to reducing our carbon footprint.
   
King County has a robust collection of tools and resources to support working remotely. The individual selected for this opportunity will be joining an innovative and progressive team that is redefining how we work as we transition to the department's hybrid environment.  
 
Forbes recently named King County as one of Washington State's best employers.
   
Together, with leadership and our employees, we're changing the way government delivers service and winning national recognition as a model of excellence. Are you ready to make a difference? Come join the team dedicated to serving one of the nation's best places to live, work and play.
 
Guided by our "True North", we are making King County a welcoming community where every person can thrive. We value diversity, inclusion and belonging in our workplace and workforce. To reach this goal we are committed to workforce equity. Equitable recruiting, support, and retention is how we will obtain the highest quality workforce in our region; a workforce that shares and will help advance our guiding principles--we are one team; we solve problems; we focus on the customer; we drive for results; we are racially just; we respect all people; we lead the way; and we are responsible stewards. We encourage people of all backgrounds and identities to apply, including Native American and people of color, immigrants, refugees, women, LGBTQ+, people living with disabilities, and veterans.
 
King County is an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Employer
No person is unlawfully excluded from employment opportunities based on race, color, religion, national origin, sex (including gender identity, sexual orientation, and pregnancy), age, genetic information, disability, veteran status, or other protected class. Our EEO policy applies to all employment actions, including but not limited to recruitment, hiring, selection for training, promotion, transfer, demotion, layoff, termination, rates of pay, or other forms of compensation.
 
To Apply 
If you are interested in pursuing this position, please follow the application instructions carefully. If you need this announcement in an alternate language or format, would like to request accommodation or assistance in the application or assessment process or if you have questions please contact your recruiter listed on this job announcement.
 
 For more information regarding this recruitment, please contact:  
  Reeshema Lewis
  Sr. Human Resources Analyst
  Reeshema.Lewis@kingcounty.gov