The American Council for Election Technology (ACET) is currently conducting a search for an Executive Director to work with us under contract throughout the remainder of 2024. In 2025 and beyond, this position will be contracted annually from January through December. Responsibilities include: Lead regularly scheduled ACET Board of Directors meetings with representatives of the member companies to synchronize regarding the group’s key priorities in adherence to ACET's by-laws. Conduct regularly scheduled working meetings of the ACET Leadership Team (President, Vice President, and Secretary/Treasurer) to synchronize regarding status and details related to deliverables. Represent ACET at events with the goals of creating external awareness of this important organization among election community stakeholders and bringing aboard additional corporate members. Develop continuous website and social media (LinkedIn and X/Twitter) content and work to create, sustain, and grow engagement. Draft materials including educational briefs, position papers, FAQs, and one-pagers. Seek opportunities to present and participate at national and state election administration and election technology-related events on behalf of ACET. Interface and collaborate with other groups, companies, agencies, etc., at all levels of government and in the private sector on behalf of ACET at the direction of the ACET Board of Directors. Expand ACET's bandwidth in the election technology community by working to increase the organization's membership. Serve as media contact for ACET. Compensation will be in the form of a monthly retainer representing an average of approximately 10-20 hours of time per week, noting that some times of the year are busier than others. All approved travel and meeting registration expenses undertaken for ACET will be reimbursed by the organization. If you are interested in discussing this exciting opportunity, please inbox Michelle M. Shafer on LinkedIn (Michelle is currently consulting with ACET to help coordinate this search.) or send a resume and cover letter to ACET at info@techforelections.vote. About American Council for Election Technology (ACET): The American Council of Election Technology (ACET) is a national, nonpartisan trade association of the leading providers of election technology solutions. Thousands of jurisdictions across the United States rely on our members' products and services to advance democracy. ACET members provide voters with the means to cast their ballots with confidence that their votes will be accurately recorded and protected. Their technologies and services help state and local officials print ballots, check-in voters, tabulate votes, and report and audit election results. Current ACET Member Companies are: Election Systems & Software, Hart InterCivic, MicroVote General Corporation, Runbeck Election Services, Inc. Election Systems & Software, Smartmatic, Unisyn Voting Solutions, VOTEC Corporation.
Happy to see ACET growing. Interesting gig.
Michelle, this sounds like fun! hmmmm