=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: ROV Communications Officer*
Salary: $76,752.00 - $105,580.80 YEAR
Location: San Bernardino, CA, CA, 92415-0440
Employer: San Bernardino County
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2026-04-11
Job Type: Full-time
Job Number: 26-03390ROV-01
Department: Registrar of Voters
Opening Date: 04/11/2026
Closing Date: 5/1/2026 5:00 PM Pacific

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===




San Bernardino County Registrar of Voters is seeking a Communications Officer to lead the development and coordination of internal and external communications, media and public relations, and marketing initiatives for the department. This role is responsible for preparing press releases, public service announcements, articles, bulletins, reports, and informational materials such as brochures, as well as supporting presentations and community education and outreach efforts.

The Communications Officer oversees a broad range of communication and information activities, serves as a liaison between executive leadership, management, and media representatives, and responds to inquiries from the media, public, and partner agencies.

For more detailed information, refer to the Communications Officer job description. 






ABOUT THE REGISTRAR OF VOTERS


The mission of the Registrar of Voters is to conduct San Bernardino County’s elections in a fair, accessible, secure, transparent, and efficient manner, upholding the highest level of election standards and accuracy, while always providing excellent customer service to both our team and the diverse population we serve. The San Bernardino County Registrar of Voters is responsible for all aspects of the election process for San Bernardino County's residents. 


The Registrar of Voters administers all local, state, and federal elections in the County of San Bernardino, including the management of voting systems, the employment and training of poll workers, election ballot processing, and vote tallying. The Registrar of Voters performs all voter registration functions, including the storage and maintenance of voter registration records; and provides voting-related services to voters, elected officials, campaign groups, and other voting interests.


Conducting elections is both exciting and challenging. Attention to detail is critical, and working as a team is vital to accomplishing successful elections. Permanent staff, temporary staff, and volunteers assist in the variety of complex tasks required to conduct elections. The Registrar of Voters believes that a successful team is a partnership – one that contains the following elements:


Clear roles and responsibilities
Shared goals and objectives
Commitment to excellence
A clear communication process
A willingness to be open and honest
Personal accountability
Personal integrity





EXCELLENT BENEFITS

To review job-specific benefits, refer to:

Benefits by Occupational Unit: Administrative Services
Employee Benefits
County MOU: General Unit






CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT 

Pre-Employment Process: Incumbents must pass a background investigation, which includes fingerprinting, work history verification, as well as a job-related physical exam and drug screening.   


Work Schedule: During peak election periods the Registrar of Voters' staff are required to work a significant amount of overtime, which includes evenings, weekends (both Saturdays and Sundays) and early morning/very late hours on election day/night.


Travel: Travel throughout the County may be required and employees will be required to make provisions for such transportation.


Sponsorship: Please note San Bernardino County is not able to consider candidates who will require visa sponsorship at the time of application or in the future. Candidates must be able to present their legal right to work in the United States.

EDUCATION: Bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university in English, Journalism, Business/Public Administration, Marketing, Public Relations, Communications, Public Health, Health Promotion and Education, Health/Natural Sciences, or a closely related field.

-AND-

EXPERIENCE:  Three (3) years of full-time experience in developing and administering a comprehensive public relations or communications program, which  included the dissemination of information to internal and/or external audiences through various communications media.

The ideal candidate will have exceptional verbal, written, organizational, and public relations skills; demonstrate initiative; and have relevant experience within a public sector agency, preferably in a human services agency.



Application Procedure:  To be considered for this excellent opportunity, please complete and submit the online employment application and supplemental questionnaire by Friday, May 1, 2026 at 5:00 pm.


There will be a competitive evaluation of qualifications based on the information provided in your Application and the Supplemental Questionnaire. Be sure to include in your application and Supplemental Questionnaire any relevant experience and education that demonstrates that you meet the minimum requirements, as it will be used to competitively evaluate your qualifications; resumes will not be reviewed as part of the evaluation process. The most highly qualified candidates, based on the evaluation results, may be referred for interview.


All communications regarding the remainder of the selection process will be via email. Please be sure the email provided on this application is always current; it is your responsibility to update your personal information.  Update your Spam, Junk, Bulk, and Firewall settings as needed to ensure that you receive all information pertaining to this recruitment.

To ensure timely and successful submission of your online application, please allow ample time to complete and submit your application before the posted filing deadline. Applicants will be automatically logged-out if they have not submitted the application and all required materials prior to the posted deadline. Once your application has been successfully submitted you will receive an onscreen confirmation and an email. We recommend that you save and/or print these for your records. Please note, if you do not receive an onscreen confirmation and an email acknowledging our receipt of your application we have not received your application. 

If you require technical assistance, please review the Government Jobs online application guide, or contact their Toll-Free Applicant Support line at (855) 524-5627.  Please note that Human Resources is not responsible for any issues or delays caused by the internet connection, computer or browser used to submit the application.

Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) / Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA):
San Bernardino County is an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) and Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) compliant employer, dedicated to ensuring equal employment opportunities for all employees and applicants.

ADA Accommodation:
If you have a disability and need accommodations during the testing process, please submit the Special Testing Accommodations Request Form (Download PDF) within one week of the recruitment filing deadline.

Veterans' Preference: Eligible veterans and their spouses or widows/widowers who are not current County employees may receive additional Veterans' Preference points. For details and instructions on how to request these points, please refer to the Veterans' Preference Policy.


For more important details, review the Applicant Information and County Employment Process.

Administrative Services UnitSan Bernardino County offers a range of benefit programs for employees and their eligible dependents. These include health, dental, vision, and life insurance, as well as a variety of other voluntary benefits. Programs and benefit amounts vary and are based on bargaining unit, family size, hire date, plan selection, and number of hours worked. Please review the appropriate Summary of Benefits* for more information Refer to the appropriate MOU, contact the County’s Employee Benefits and Services Division at (909) 387-5787 or visit the Employee Benefits website for more detailed information.*Retirement benefits subject to change.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        PLEASE READ THE BELOW STATEMENT
Instructions: The information provided on your application and in your responses to the following Supplemental Questionnaire will be used to determine if you meet the minimum requirements for this position, as well as in a competitive evaluation of qualifications. It is in your best interest to be as thorough as possible in your responses. Resumes will NOT be reviewed to determine qualifications. 

Applicants will not be able to update their application materials or answers to the questionnaire once the application has been submitted. 

Note: Experience listed on this questionnaire must also be listed and fully detailed in the work experience section of your application.
        
        
                I have read and understand the above statement.
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Education: Do you possess a bachelor's degree in English, Journalism, Business/Public Administration, Marketing, Public Relations, Communications, Public Health, Health Promotion and Education, Health/Natural Sciences, or a closely related field?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Education: Indicate the highest degree you have completed (e.g., Associate, Bachelor's, Master's, Doctorate) and the field of study. The degree and field of study must also be listed in the Education section of your application.

If none, indicate "N/A."
        
        
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Experience: Indicate the years of experience you have developing and administering a comprehensive public relations or communications program, which includes the dissemination of information to internal and/or external audiences through various communications media.
        
        
                Five (5) or more years
                Three (3) to four (4) years
                Less than three (3) years
                I do not possess this experience.
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Public Relations/Information Campaigns: Describe your experience in planning, developing, and implementing public relations and/or public information campaigns. In your response, highlight your experience compiling and analyzing information for reports, conducting outreach, delivering presentations, and collaborating with community organizations and interagency committees. Additionally, include any experience coordinating media events—such as award ceremonies, community events, or County initiatives—aimed at educating the public about programs and services. 

If you do not possess this experience, indicate "N/A."

Note: Experience must be clearly detailed in the Work Experience section of your application in order to be evaluated.
        
        
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Project Coordination: Describe in detail your experience managing projects and coordinating with multiple organizations (e.g., departments, agencies, or community groups). In your response, include the types of organizations involved, the strategies you used to coordinate efforts, and the steps you took to address challenges or resolve conflicts. Also discuss the outcomes or accomplishments of the project, and reflect on anything you would have done differently to improve the process or results.” 

If you do not possess this experience, indicate "N/A."

Note: Experience must be clearly detailed in the Work Experience section of your application in order to be evaluated.
        
        
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
         Social Media: Describe your experience using social media to promote agencies, programs, or outreach/marketing campaigns. In your response, specify the platforms you have used and your role in developing and managing content, including the types of materials created (e.g., graphics, photography, video). Additionally, describe your experience monitoring and responding to inquiries, comments, and complaints received through social media channels.

If you do not possess this experience, indicate "N/A."

Note: Experience must be clearly detailed in the Work Experience section of your application in order to be evaluated.
        
        
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Indicate which web programs, Adobe Creative Cloud software programs and/or other software program(s) you have experience working with.
        
        
                Adobe Dreamweaver
                WordPress
                Photoshop
                Illustrator
                Premiere
                After Effects
                Other software program(s)
                None of the above
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        Software Programs: For each program selected above, indicate your level of proficiency and years  of experience using each program (e.g., Adobe InDesign, intermediate 2 years of experience). 

If you do not possess experience with these programs, indicate "N/A."
        
        
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        Applicant Acknowledgement - Notification via email:  As part of our efforts to increase efficiency and promote conservation of resources, human resources uses email to communicate with applicants.    Therefore, all future communications regarding this recruitment, including applicant status and testing notifications, will be made via email.  

Each applicant needs their own email address. We strongly encourage you, as an applicant, to ensure that the email address you have provided us with your application is current, secure, confidential, and readily accessible to you.  Adjust Spam and/or other filters so that our emails are accepted.  Please carefully read any notices that we send you and follow any instructions provided in a timely manner.  We will not be responsible in any way if you do not receive our emails (i.e., for the non-delivery of our emails or if you fail to check your e-mail on a timely basis).
        
        
                I acknowledge that I have read, understood, and agree to the above statement.
        
    


    
        

11

    

    
        **ATTENTION GMAIL USERS**We have become aware of an increase in Gmail's spam filter sensitivity. Due to this change, it is possible that emails coming from San Bernardino County Human Resources may be marked as spam and will not make it into your Gmail inbox.
 
For your convenience, a step-by-step guide to create and apply filters within Gmail is available in the attached PDF. Download the PDF Guide. (Download PDF reader) Once downloaded, follow the instructions so that you will receive future emails from San Bernardino County Human Resources.
 
Note: If you apply the filters and still do not receive emails from San Bernardino County Human Resources you can check your www.governmentjobs.com (Neogov) account inbox. All notifications will appear there.
        
        
                I understand
        
    


    
        

12

    

    
        Applicant Acknowledgement - Application Complete: Thank you for taking the time to complete this application and supplemental questionnaire. Please be sure to review all information provided prior to submitting it as you cannot update or revise it once submitted.  Your submitted application will be reviewed and evaluated as is. Please do not refer to a resume or other documentation in lieu of completing the employment history section or responding to the supplemental questions; they will not be reviewed or considered. 

Once your application has been successfully submitted, you will receive an onscreen confirmation and an email confirmation will be sent to the email address listed on your application. We recommend that you save and/or print these for your records. Please note: if you do not receive an onscreen confirmation and an email acknowledging our receipt of your application, we have not received your application. 
        
        
                I acknowledge that I have reviewed my application and understand that I will not be able to update or revise any part of it once submitted.
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        