=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Program Specialist
Salary: $51,667.20 - $75,483.20 YEAR
Location: 2134 W Laburnum Avenue, VA, VA, 23219
Employer: City of Richmond
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2026-04-12
Job Type: Full-Time
Job Number: 17M00000011
Department: Office of Elections
Opening Date: 04/13/2026
Closing Date: 4/28/2026 11:59 PM Eastern

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Are you Richmond R.E.A.D.Y? Respect. Equity. Accountability. Diversity…YOU!!!
 
This is an EXCITING time to Join the City of Richmond! We are committed to nurturing talent, fostering growth opportunities, and building strong connections within our workforce. As we continue to make strides to becoming the employer of choice, we are thrilled about the below employee benefit enhancements:

Virginia Retirement System (VRS)
Language Incentive
Referral Bonus
Tuition Assistance Program

The Office of Elections is seeking to hire Elections Program Specialist. The incumbent will provide program and technology support to various staff in the elections office. Incumbent will coordinate maintenance and troubleshooting of election programs and work in conjunction with Virginia Department of Elections staff, local government staff, vendors, and contractors to resolve program issues. This incumbent will not supervise other positions and will report to the Deputy General Registrar.

Coordinates, maintains and troubleshoots election program systems, such as election equipment, voter registration, polling places, election officers, absentees, voter outreach, administrative and or technology in accordance with established policies and procedures
Interacts with local government and State Board of Elections staff to discuss and coordinate program activities
Evaluate office program procedures and make recommendations to improve the efficiency and accuracy of programs
Design, organize and deliver formal and informal training on election program operations
Conduct quality control for local election office programs and report results to program leads, managers, the Deputy Director and the Director
Monitor appropriate level of access and privileges for programs and assist users with passwords and other security procedures
Purchase supplies, pay invoices and budget for certain programs
Accept and process candidate and committee filings
Perform the full range of specialized clerical or clerical work in a local election office
Assist in redistricting
Conduct help Desk support for issues encountered at polling sites during Election Cycle and document problems and resolutions in reports
Provide routine and ad hoc reports to the Director and Deputy Director, program supervisor or program manager of the local election office on election program activities
Attend external meetings and training to share best practices and lessons learned
Work with local and State government staff to help maintain accurate program information on the website
Perform other related duties as assigned.

MINIMUM TRAINING AND EXPERIENCE:

High School Diploma or equivalent (G.E.D) required
Related work experience with elections/voting machines and equipment
An equivalent combination of training and experience (as approved by the department) may be used to meet the minimum qualifications of the classification

KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, AND ABILITIES:
 TYPICAL KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, AND ABILITIES: These are a representative sample; position assignments may vary.



Knowledge (some combination of the following):

Knowledge of election administration processes, voting systems, and related federal and state regulations, particularly those established by the Virginia Department of Elections.
Basic IT principles, software troubleshooting practices, and system maintenance procedures.

Skills (some combination of the following):

Coordinating technical support efforts with state agencies, local government staff, vendors, and contractors.
Identifying, analyzing, and resolving program issues in a timely and accurate manner.
Organizing, tracking, and documenting technical issues, updates, and resolutions.

Abilities (some combination of the following):

Communicate clearly and effectively, both verbally and in writing, with technical and non-technical stakeholders.
Interpret and apply policies, procedures, and guidelines related to election programs and systems.
Manage multiple tasks, prioritize workload, and meet deadlines in a fast-paced, detail-oriented environment.
Work independently with minimal supervision while maintaining a high level of accuracy and accountability.
Build effective working relationships and collaborate with state officials, local departments, vendors, and contractors.



 

Equal Employment Opportunity Statement

The City of Richmond provides equal employment opportunities to all employees and applicants for employment and prohibits discrimination and harassment of any type without regard to race, color, religion, age, sex, national origin, disability status, genetics, protected veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, or any other characteristic protected by federal, state or local laws.

The City of Richmond is committed to the full inclusion of all qualified individuals. As part of this commitment, the City of Richmond will ensure that persons with disabilities are provided with reasonable accommodations. If you require reasonable accommodations under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) to participate in the job application and/or the interview process, please contact Jessica McKenzie, Human Resources Manager by email at Jessica.McKenzie@RVA.GOV.

This policy applies to all terms and conditions of employment, including recruitment, hiring, placement, promotion, termination, layoff, transfer, leaves of absence, compensation and training.

 

The City of Richmond Values Veterans. We are an official V3 Certified Company.

The City of Richmond is a proud partner with the US Army Partnership for Your Success PaYS Program.

 

With over 4,000 employees, the City of Richmond is an "Employer of Choice" among cities throughout the nation. The City strives to hire and retain employees who bring dedication and talent to the workforce. Offering a competitive, cost effective, and quality benefits package is one element of an "Employer of Choice". The City offers a full range of benefit programs from initial hire through retirement. Please visit our Web site for details.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        5-point veteran's must have been discharged under honorable conditions and had one of the following:
Active duty in the Armed Forces of the United States, in a war, or during the period 4/28/52-7/1/55 or active duty for more than 180 consecutive days other than for training, any part of which occurred during the period beginning 2/1/55 and 10/14/76 or active duty during the Gulf War sometime between 8/2/90 - 1/2/92 or active duty in a campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge has been authorized or active duty for which more than 180 consecutive days other than for training, any part of which occurred during the period beginning 9/11/2001 and ending on the date prescribed by the Presidential proclamation or by the law as the last date of operation Iraqi Freedom. Do any of these apply?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        10-point compensable veteran. You must have an existing compensable service-connected disability of 10 percent or more. Other 10-point veteran include disabled veteran or a veteran who was awarded the Purple Heart for wound or injuries received in action, veteran's widow or widower who has not remarried, wife or husband of a veteran who has a service-connected disability, widowed, divorced or separated mother of an ex-service son or daughter who died in action, or who is totally and permanently disabled. Do any of these apply?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Which answer best describes your highest level of education?
        
        
                High School Diploma/ GED
                Associate's Degree
                Bachelor's Degree
                Master's Degree
                None of the above
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Which best describes your experience supporting election administration programs or voting systems (e.g., electronic pollbooks, tabulation systems, reporting tools)?
        
        
                No direct experience with election programs
                Limited exposure (e.g., assisted once or twice, training only)
                Routine support under guidance (e.g., basic maintenance/troubleshooting)
                Independent support (e.g., led troubleshooting and maintenance cycles)
                Led complex initiatives (e.g., coordinated multi-stakeholder resolutions, upgrades)
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        What is your experience documenting incidents, changes, and resolutions (e.g., tickets, change logs, release notes)?
        
        
                No formal documentation experience
                Basic notes; inconsistent tracking
                Consistent ticketing and updates; follow templates
                Author detailed documentation; maintain configuration/change histories
                Establish documentation standards; audit for quality/compliance
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        How familiar are you with applying Virginia elections policies, procedures, and technical guidance (e.g., ELECT advisories, security protocols)?
        
        
                Not familiar
                Basic awareness; have read summaries
                Applied select policies with supervision
                Applied policies independently across projects
                Interpreted and advised others on policy applications
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        How confident and experienced are you in explaining complex technical issues to non-technical staff (clerks, officers, executive leadership) and technical vendors?
        
        
                Not confident / limited experience
                Basic explanations; may need support
                Comfortable with routine briefings and emails
                Skilled: tailor messaging, lead meetings, produce clear summaries
                Expert: facilitate cross-functional decisions; develop training materials
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        