=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Supervisor
Salary: $68,536.00 - $94,203.20 YEAR
Location: San Bernardino, CA, CA, 92415-0440
Employer: San Bernardino County
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2026-04-18
Job Type: Full-time
Job Number: 26-05012-01
Department: Registrar of Voters
Opening Date: 04/18/2026
Closing Date: Continuous

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===









The Registrar of Voters has exciting and dynamic career opportunities in the fast-paced environment of elections. Vacancies currently exist for Elections Supervisors who are responsible for planning, organizing, assigning, reviewing, and evaluating the work of assigned staff in support of the election, as well as performing more complex tasks relative to the elections process.

For a more detailed listing of duties, view the Elections Supervisor job description.




ABOUT THE DEPARTMENT


The mission of the San Bernardino County Registrar of Voters is to conduct the County’s elections in a fair, accessible, secure, transparent, and efficient manner, upholding the highest level of election standards and accuracy, while always providing excellent customer service to both our team and the diverse population we serve.


The Registrar of Voters performs all voter registration functions, including the storage and maintenance of voter registration records; and provides voting-related services to voters, elected officials, campaign groups, and other voting interests.  The Registrar of Voters also conducts an extensive community outreach and education program making speakers available to community groups and organizations.  


Conducting elections is both exciting and challenging.  Attention to detail is critical and working as a team is vital to accomplishing successful elections.  Permanent staff temporary staff, and volunteers assist in the variety of complex tasks required to conduct elections. The Registrar of Voters believes that a successful team is a partnership - one that contains the following elements:


Clear roles and responsibilities
Shared goals and objectives
Commitment to excellence
A clear communication process
A willingness to be open and honest
A willingness to compromise
Personal accountability
Personal integrity




EXCELLENT BENEFITS

To review job-specific benefits, refer to:

Benefits by Occupational Unit: Administrative Services
Employee Benefits
County MOU: General Unit





CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT


Pre-Employment Process: Incumbents must pass a background investigation, which includes fingerprinting, work history verification, as well as a job-related physical exam and drug screening. 


Travel: Travel throughout the County may be required and employees will be required to make provisions for such transportation.


Work Schedule: During peak election periods, this position will be required to work extended hours which may include evenings, weekends (both Saturdays and Sundays) and early morning/late night hours on election day/night.


Sponsorship: San Bernardino County is unable to consider to candidates who require Visa Sponsorship at this time or in the future. Candidates must be able to present their legal right to work in the United States at the time of employment.

EXPERIENCE: Applicants must have two (2) years of full-time equivalent experience in ONE (1) of the following:



OPTION 1: Professional-level experience with primary responsibility in administering and implementing complex election programs and projects, which includes reviewing, researching, and implementing government codes, legislation, and procedures in a government, state, county, or local election environment. 



OPTION 2: Professional-level experience with primary responsibility in analyzing and implementing laws, processes, procedures, practices, and/or policies in a government, corporate, or non-profit environment.


-AND-


REQUIRED LEAD/SUPERVISORY EXPERIENCE: At least one (1) year of lead or supervisory experience overseeing support services staff. Experience gained as a supervisor, assistant supervisor, or lead at a polling place or voting location does not qualify toward this requirement. 


-AND-


EDUCATION: An Associate degree or equivalent (60 semester/90 quarter units) from an accredited college or university in Business/Public Administration, Political Science, Management, Economics, Social Science, or related field. Transcripts must be submitted with application if no degree is conferred.


Education Substitution: Additional qualifying experience administering and implementing elections programs, or leading/overseeing a staff engaged in elections programs, in a government, state, county, or local elections environment may substitute for the required education on the basis of one year of full-time experience equaling 30 semester (45 quarter units) of the required education.

The ideal candidate will have:
Extensive knowledge of the elections process with substantial supervisory experience over election support staff responsible for performing complex election tasks. 
Substantial experience performing complex legislative analysis and interpretation and policy/program implementation.
Strong leadership and communication skills with an emphasis on customer service.
Possession of a Certified Election and Registration Administration (CERA) Certification or California Professional Elections Administration Credential is highly desirable.

Application Procedure: Applications will be accepted until a sufficient number of qualified applications are received. To receive priority consideration for this excellent opportunity, please complete and submit the online employment application and supplemental questionnaire as soon as possible. This recruitment may close at any time once a sufficient number of qualified candidates have been reached.


There will be a competitive evaluation of qualifications based on the information provided in your Application and the Supplemental Questionnaire. Be sure to include in your application and Supplemental Questionnaire any relevant experience and education that demonstrates that you meet the minimum requirements, as it will be used to competitively evaluate your qualifications; resumes will not be reviewed as part of the evaluation process. The most highly qualified candidates, based on the evaluation results, may be referred for interview.


All communications regarding the remainder of the selection process will be via email. Please be sure the email provided on this application is always current; it is your responsibility to update your personal information.  Update your Spam, Junk, Bulk, and Firewall settings as needed to ensure that you receive all information pertaining to this recruitment.

To ensure timely and successful submission of your online application, please allow ample time to complete and submit your application before the posted filing deadline. Applicants will be automatically logged-out if they have not submitted the application and all required materials prior to the posted deadline. Once your application has been successfully submitted you will receive an onscreen confirmation and an email. We recommend that you save and/or print these for your records. Please note, if you do not receive an onscreen confirmation and an email acknowledging our receipt of your application we have not received your application. 

If you require technical assistance, please review the Government Jobs online application guide, or contact their Toll-Free Applicant Support line at (855) 524-5627. Please note that Human Resources is not responsible for any issues or delays caused by the internet connection, computer or browser used to submit the application.

Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) / Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA):
San Bernardino County is an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) and Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) compliant employer, dedicated to ensuring equal employment opportunities for all employees and applicants.

ADA Accommodation:
If you have a disability and need accommodations during the testing process, please submit the Special Testing Accommodations Request Form (Download PDF) within one week of the recruitment filing deadline.

Veterans' Preference: Eligible veterans and their spouses or widows/widowers who are not current County employees may receive additional Veterans' Preference points. For details and instructions on how to request these points, please refer to the Veterans' Preference Policy.


For more important details, review the Applicant Information and County Employment Process.

Supervisory UnitSan Bernardino County offers a range of benefit programs for employees and their eligible dependents. These include health, dental, vision, and life insurance, as well as a variety of other voluntary benefits. Programs and benefit amounts vary and are based on bargaining unit, family size, hire date, plan selection, and number of hours worked. Please review the appropriate Summary of Benefits* for more information Refer to the appropriate MOU, contact the County’s Employee Benefits and Services Division at (909) 387-5787 or visit the Employee Benefits website for more detailed information.*Retirement benefits subject to change.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        PLEASE READ THE STATEMENT BELOW
Instructions: The information provided on your application and in your responses to the following Supplemental Questionnaire will be used to determine if you meet the minimum requirements for this position, as well as in a competitive evaluation of qualifications. It is in your best interest to be as thorough as possible in your responses. Resumes will NOT be reviewed to determine qualifications. 

Applicants will not be able to update their application materials or answers to the questionnaire once the application has been submitted. 

Note: Experience listed on this questionnaire must also be listed and fully detailed in the work experience section of your application.
        
        
                I have read and understand the instructions stated above.
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Education/Coursework:  If you possess an Associate degree or higher in Business/Public Administration, Political Science, Management, Economics, Social Science, or closely related field, indicate degree information in the answer field below. (e.g. Bachelor of Arts in Administration, CSUSB).

If you do not possess a qualifying degree, please list your completed coursework and be sure to include the following:  Course Title, Course Number, School, and Number of Units.  Please indicate if units are semester or quarter. (e.g. Intro to Economics, ECON 101, Chaffey College, 4 semester unit.) 

Transcripts must be attached to your application if no degree has been conferred. Unofficial transcripts will be accepted for the application process.

If none, indicate "N/A."
        
        
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Education Substitution: If you do not meet the minimum education requirement, describe your additional qualifying experience that you believe substitutes for the required education. Qualifying experience must include administering and implementing elections programs, or leading or overseeing staff engaged in elections programs, within a government (state, county, or local) elections environment. Substitution is calculated on the basis of one year of full-time experience equaling 30 semester units (or 45 quarter units) of the required education.

In your response, include the duration of your experience and clearly explain its relevance to elections programs and/or staff supervision.

If this does not apply to you, indicate “N/A.”
        
        
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Experience Options: Indicate the area(s) in which you have at least two (2) years of experience. Select all that apply.
        
        
                OPTION 1: Professional-level experience with primary responsibility in administering and implementing complex election programs and projects, which includes reviewing, researching, and implementing government codes, legislation, and procedures in a government, state, county, or local election environment.
                OPTION 2: Professional-level experience with primary responsibility in analyzing and implementing laws, processes, procedures, practices, and/or policies in a government, corporate, or non-profit environment.
                I do not qualify under either of the options above.
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Elections Program Experience: Describe your professional experience administering or implementing election programs or projects within a government (state, county, or local) elections environment. In your response, include the types of elections or programs you supported, your specific role, level of responsibility, and primary duties, as well as the scope, complexity, and impact of the work.

For each position referenced, indicate the employer name, job title, and dates of employment. This experience must also be reflected in the Work Experience section of your application.

If you do not possess this experience, indicate "N/A."
        
        
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Policy and Regulatory Analysis Experience: Describe your professional experience analyzing and implementing laws, policies, or procedures in a government, corporate, or nonprofit environment. In your response, include the types of laws, regulations, or policies you worked with, your role in interpreting and applying them, and relevant examples demonstrating your analysis and implementation.

For each position referenced, indicate the employer name, job title, and dates of employment. This experience must also be reflected in the Work Experience section of your application.

If you do not possess this experience, indicate "N/A."
        
        
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Lead/Supervisory Experience: Do you have at least one (1) year of lead or supervisory experience over support services staff?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Lead/Supervisory Experience: Is your supervisory experience limited to a polling place or voting location?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        LEAD/SUPERVISORY EXPERIENCE: Indicate the areas in which you have experience. Select ALL that apply.
        
        
                Advise on work problems
                Assign and review work
                Train staff
                Approve leave time
                Change work schedules
                Counsel on behavior problems
                Give input on work performance evaluations
                Write work performance evaluations for supervisor's signature
                Write and sign work performance evaluations
                Interview candidates for hiring
                Recommend candidates for hiring
                Make final hiring decisions
                Recommend disciplinary actions
                Carry out disciplinary actions (write reprimands, terminations, etc.)
                None of the above
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        Lead/Supervisory Experience: Applicants must clearly demonstrate qualifying lead or supervisory experience. Your response must include detailed information about your responsibilities, including—but not limited to—oversight of staff, assignment and review of work, performance management (e.g., WPEs/WIPs), disciplinary actions, hiring, termination, scheduling, and day-to-day supervision.

You must provide explicit and comprehensive details for each position listed. This includes: your job title, dates of employment, the number and types of staff supervised, and the full scope of your supervisory or lead responsibilities. 

NOTE: This experience must also be clearly reflected in the Work Experience section of your application.

If you do not possess this experience, indicate "N/A."
        
        
        
    


    
        

11

    

    
        Election Environment Experience: Indicate the areas in which you have experience. Check all that apply. 

 Experience should be clearly detailed in your application.
        
        
                Logistics/Warehouse Experience
                Customer Service/Call Center
                Elections Information Technology Experience
                Preparation and Operation of Election Equipment
                Ballot Scanning and Tallying
                Ballot Ordering
                Logic and Accuracy Testing
                Ballot Proofing
                Voter Registration Upkeep
                Signature Verification
                Poll Worker/Vote Center Training/Coordination
                Candidate Filing/Relations
                None of the above
        
    


    
        

12

    

    
        Election Environment Experience: Based on the areas you selected in the previous question, describe your relevant election-related work experience. In your response, identify each selected area and provide a detailed summary of your duties, responsibilities, and the context in which the work was performed.

For each position referenced, indicate the employer name, job title, and dates of employment. This experience must also be reflected in the Work Experience section of your application.

If you do not possess any of this experience, indicate "N/A."
        
        
        
    


    
        

13

    

    
        Technology Experience: Indicate the areas below in which you possess a minimum of one (1) year of experience. Check all that apply. Experience should be clearly detailed in your application.
        
        
                MS Word
                MS Excel
                MW Powerpoint
                MS Access
                MS One Note
                MS Visio
                Other
                None of the above
        
    


    
        

14

    

    
        Overtime Availability: During peak election periods, staff are required to work a significant amount overtime. This includes evenings, weekends, early mornings, and extended hours on election day/night.
        
        
                I have read the statement above, and I AM AVAILABLE to work overtime.
                I have read the statement above, and I AM NOT AVAILABLE to work overtime.
        
    


    
        

15

    

    
        Applicant Acknowledgement - Notification via email:  As part of our efforts to increase efficiency and promote conservation of resources, human resources uses email to communicate with applicants.    Therefore, all future communications regarding this recruitment, including applicant status and testing notifications, will be made via email.  

Each applicant needs their own email address. We strongly encourage you, as an applicant, to ensure that the email address you have provided us with your application is current, secure, confidential, and readily accessible to you.  Adjust Spam and/or other filters so that our emails are accepted.  Please carefully read any notices that we send you and follow any instructions provided in a timely manner.  We will not be responsible in any way if you do not receive our emails (i.e., for the non-delivery of our emails or if you fail to check your e-mail on a timely basis).
        
        
                I acknowledge that I have read, understood, and agree to the above statement.
        
    


    
        

16

    

    
        **ATTENTION GMAIL USERS**We have become aware of an increase in Gmail's spam filter sensitivity. Due to this change, it is possible that emails coming from San Bernardino County Human Resources may be marked as spam and will not make it into your Gmail inbox.
 
For your convenience, a step-by-step guide to create and apply filters within Gmail is available in the attached PDF. Download the PDF Guide. (Download PDF reader) Once downloaded, follow the instructions so that you will receive future emails from San Bernardino County Human Resources.
 
Note: If you apply the filters and still do not receive emails from San Bernardino County Human Resources you can check your www.governmentjobs.com (Neogov) account inbox. All notifications will appear there.
        
        
                I understand
        
    


    
        

17

    

    
        Applicant Acknowledgement - Application Complete: Thank you for taking the time to complete this application and supplemental questionnaire. Please be sure to review all information provided prior to submitting it as you cannot update or revise it once submitted.  Your submitted application will be reviewed and evaluated as is. Please do not refer to a resume or other documentation in lieu of completing the employment history section or responding to the supplemental questions; they will not be reviewed or considered. 

Once your application has been successfully submitted, you will receive an onscreen confirmation and an email confirmation will be sent to the email address listed on your application. We recommend that you save and/or print these for your records. Please note: if you do not receive an onscreen confirmation and an email acknowledging our receipt of your application, we have not received your application. 
        
        
                I acknowledge that I have reviewed my application and understand that I will not be able to update or revise any part of it once submitted.
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        