=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Director of Elections
Salary: $28.70 - $55.66 HOUR
Location: Salt Lake County, UT, UT, 84129
Employer: State of Utah
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2021-09-01
Job Type: Full Time
Job Number: 28803
Agency: 060 Governor's Office
Unit: 1610 GOV LT GOV OFFICE
Opening Date: 09/02/2021
Closing Date: 10/3/2021 11:59 PM Mountain
FLSA: Exempt
Recruiter: Corrie Steeves, csteeves@utah.gov, (801) 631-7136
# of Openings: 1
Background Check: You must successfully pass a criminal history check.
Schedule Code: AC - Employees in Offices of Elected Officials - This is a career service exempt at will position.
Benefits: This position is eligible for a full benefits package. See benefits tab below for details.
EEO Statement: The State of Utah is committed to equal employment opportunity regardless of race, color, ancestry, religion, sex, national origin, sexual orientation, age, citizenship, marital status, disability, ge...

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===


The Lt. Governor's Office is seeking a Director of Elections to provide administrative leadership and management to the Elections Office.  The Director of Elections oversees the coordination of elections administration with county clerks and municipal recorders.  These activities include election official and poll worker training, voter registration, election result tabulation and canvassing, voter outreach and filing federal reports.

Principal Duties

General

Report directly and regularly to the Lieutenant Governor on all Director of Election duties, including election administration, legal, legislative, public outreach, campaign finance, lobbyist regulation, budget, and staff issues.



Election Administration

Interact with state, federal, county, and municipal officials to ensure efficiency; provide analysis and interpretation of election and reporting requirements under the law
Interpret, clarify, explain, and apply election policy and procedures, practices, federal and state laws and regulations, etc. 
Coordinate with state political parties and candidates each cycle
Coordinate with 29 counties to unify election practices and provide training
Coordinate with federal partners such as  EAC, FVAP, DOJ, DHS/CISA 
Oversee the research and response to voter inquiries and complaints 
Coordinate with state and federal partners to keep elections safe and secure
Oversee primary and general election preparation
Oversee candidate signature verification
Oversee initiative and referendum process

Legal

Coordinate with Attorney General’s Office on legal and court case strategies
Work with counsel to resolve complaints  

Legislative

Represent the Lt. Governor’s Office on key legislative issues, task forces, committees, etc. 
Participate in the drafting and analysis of dozens of Lt. Governor’s Office bills each year, find sponsors for legislation and amendments 
Present in legislative committees and caucus meetings regarding election issues 
Draft fiscal impact statements for related bills and substitute bills each year
Draft and present reports to the legislature  

Public Outreach

Communicate with media regarding elections at the request of the Lt. Governor
Coordinate with government officials from other states on elections issues
Serve on appropriate boards, councils, committees, or task forces to coordinate election activities and facilitate elections goals and initiatives
Provide information and analysis to the Lt. Governor and other stakeholders
Work with education communities and other groups to provide elections-related information 

Campaign Finance and Lobbyist Regulation

Oversee the review of reports and registrations each year from 

political entities and lobbyists 




Budget

Create, Manage, and maintain the Elections Office Budget 



Staff 

Oversee elections staff and interns 
Train, monitor, and evaluate performance
Determine workloads and delegate assignments 
Work with chief of staff to initiate any corrective or disciplinary actions
Work with chief of staff to interview applicants and advise the Lt. Governor on hiring new elections staff and interns

Ideal Candidate
The Lt. Governor's Office is seeking a highly-skilled professional with exceptional management experience and political acumen. The ideal candidate will have experience with election administration and voter registration, in addition to budget management experience.

The State of Utah offers a highly competitive benefits package!   If you would like information about benefit options available, please click here.

Benefits:The State of Utah offers eligible employees a variety of benefits including medical, dental, life and disability insurance, as well as a comprehensive leave program. Please click the following link for a detailed information page: Benefits. To access a Total Compensation Calculator in Excel format click HERE.FMLA General Notice: English (Download PDF reader) (right click + open link in new tab)Español (Download PDF reader) (clic derecho + abrir en una pestaña nueva?)