Registrar of Voters
Recruitment #0921-HB1500-EX
| Approximate Salary | $124,215- $150,984 base salary per year; see brochure for complete compensation package |
|---|---|
| Opening Date | 9/20/2021 08:00:00 AM |
| Closing Date | 10/15/2021 11:59:00 PM |
| Employment Type |
Full-Time
|
| Analyst | Nicole Devencenzi |
Introduction
San Joaquin County is seeking an experienced and dedicated professional to join the executive team to provide strong leadership and administrative oversight of the Registrar of Voters Office.
This is anÂ executive, department head level position which reports directly to the County Administrator and is responsible for planning, organizing and directing the work of the Registrar/Elections staff. The Registrar manages all phases of the election process and should have an in-depth understanding of the Elections Code and have demonstrated experience in management, supervision, employee development, budgets and activities of an Elections Office.
The ideal candidate is expected to provide strategic management of the Registrar of Voters Office and must model strong work ethics and leadership skills, including accountability for oneself and others.
For additional information about the position, including salary and benefits package, please see the recruitment brochure:
NOTE: All correspondences relating to this recruitment will be delivered via e-mail. The e-mail account used will be the one provided on your employment application during time of submittal. Please be sure to check your e-mail often for updates. If you do not have an e-mail account on file, Human Resources will send you correspondences via US Mail.
ÂEqual Opportunity Employer
San Joaquin County is an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Employer and is committed to providing equal employment to all without regard to age, ancestry, color, creed, marital status, medical condition, national origin, physical or mental disability, political affiliation or belief, pregnancy, race, religion, sex, or sexual orientation.Â For more information go to www.sjgov.org/department/hr/eeo.
Accommodations for those covered by the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA):
San Joaquin County complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act and, upon request, will consider reasonable accommodations to enable individuals with disabilities to perform essential job functions.
HOW TO APPLY
Apply Online:Â Â Â Â Â Â Â
www.sjgov.org/department/hr
By mail or in person:Â Â
San Joaquin County Human Resources
44 N. San Joaquin Street Suite 330
Stockton, CA 95202Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â
Â
Office hours:Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â
Monday â Friday 8:00 am to 5:00 pm; excluding holidays.
Phone:Â (209) 468-3370Â
Â
Job Line:
For currentÂ employment opportunitiesÂ please callÂ our 24-hour job line at (209) 468-3377.Â
When a final filing date is indicated, applications must be filed with the Human Resources Division before 5:00 p.m. or postmarked by the final filing date. Resumes will not be accepted in lieu of an application. Applications sent through county inter-office mail, which are not received by the final filing date, will not be accepted. (The County assumes no responsibility for mailed applications which are not received by the Human Resources Division). Â
San Joaquin County Substance Abuse Policy: San Joaquin County has adopted a Substance Abuse Policy in compliance with the Federal Drug Free Workplace Act of 1988. This policy is enforced by all San Joaquin County Departments and applies to all San Joaquin County employees.
Equal Opportunity Employer:Â San Joaquin County is an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Employer and is committed to providing equal employment to all without regard to age, ancestry, color, creed, marital status, medical condition, national origin, physical or mental disability, political affiliation or belief, pregnancy, race, religion, sex, or sexual orientation.Â For more information go to www.sjgov.org/department/hr/eeo.