=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Voting System Specialist
Salary: $25.00 - $29.00 HOUR
Location: Boise, ID, ID, 83720
Employer: State of Idaho
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2023-05-14
Job Type: Full Time
Department: Office of Secretary of State
Opening Date: 05/15/2023
Closing Date: 6/16/2023 11:59 PM Mountain

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

 


Voter System Specialist

Pay Range:  $25.00 - $29.00/hr., plus competitive state benefits!
Job Type:     Full-Time
Location:      Boise, ID
Closing:        Monday, June 5, 2023

About
The Idaho Secretary of State is one of Idaho’s seven statewide elected officials tasked with executing specific constitutional and statutory duties. The Secretary serves as Idaho’s chief elections official, oversees the registration of businesses, trademarks, notaries, and other professions, as well as maintains records on the official actions of the Governor and Legislature.
 
The Elections Division ensures Idaho’s elections are fair, accurate, accessible, and secure. By maintaining and modernizing the security and integrity of Idaho’s election system, our intent is to ensure every voice is heard, and every vote counted. The division provides valuable services to voters, candidates, and election officials for all of Idaho’s 44 counties.

Description
This position plays a critical role within the Elections Division in helping the office ensure elections equipment used in Idaho’s elections is accurate, efficient, accessible, and secure. The position oversees the testing for certification of voting systems used to design, process, and tabulate ballots and report election results in Idaho. This position reports to the Elections Division Director. Travel may be required.  

Defining Characteristics
The position provides guidance and advice to counties on the security and technical standards of voting systems certified for use pursuant to I.C. 34-2409. The ideal candidate for this position must adhere to high ethical standards and is comfortable working in a highly scrutinized and technical environment. The incumbent is expected to have strong communication skills that will bridge the highly technical aspects of the position to the operational at the county level. Additionally, the person in the position will present the data and test results to the public and the media.

Provide expertise in voting systems and equipment 
Become familiar with U.S. Election Assistance Commission standards for voting equipment and testing requirements
Sit on the U.S. Election Commission Standards Board
Train counties on standards and testing requirements
Develop testing and certification standards for the state of Idaho 
Conduct hearings to test voting equipment and software releases to be used by counties 
Test election technology such as e-poll books, ballot on demand, UOCAVA/remote ballot marking devices, and election night reporting systems
Develop documentation and track voting systems used in Idaho counties 
Conduct audits related to compliance with voting certification standards 
Ensure all voting system components are updated, maintained, tested, and secure 
Create and maintain procedural documentation 
Assist with response to technical public records requests related to voting systems 
Ensure compliance with Idaho laws, rules, and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
Support and collaborate on special projects outside of the elections cycle, improving processes and systems within the scope of elections

Candidates for this position must effectively demonstrate knowledge and experience in the following areas:


Some knowledge of Idaho election laws
Some knowledge of voting systems 
Some experience reviewing or auditing organizational accounts, information, policies and procedures to ensure compliance

To Apply
Please submit a resume and separate cover letter detailing your qualifications by email with the subject line ‘Voting System Specialist Application’ to Guillermo Velasco, Elections Director, at gvelasco@sos.idaho.gov. 
 
NOTICE:  Employment will be contingent upon applicant successfully passing a criminal background investigation.
 
At Will Position (Non-classified)
The Idaho Secretary of State is an elected official of the state, and positions within the office are at will positions. While this position includes a full state benefits package, Secretary of State employees are not considered classified employees, and as such, do not have to complete the testing requirements mandated by other state agencies. This position is an “at-will position”.

EEO/ADA/Veteran's Preference

The State of Idaho is committed to providing equal employment opportunities and prohibit discrimination against qualified individuals based on their status as protected veterans or individuals with disabilities and prohibit discrimination against all individuals based on their race, color, religion, political affiliation or belief, sex, national origin, genetics, or any other status protected under applicable federal, state, or local laws.

The State of Idaho is committed to access and reasonable accommodations for individuals with disabilities, auxiliary aids and services are available upon request. If you require an accommodation at any step in our recruitment process, you are encouraged to contact (208) 334-2263 (TTY/TTD: 711), or email ada.coordinator@dhr.idaho.gov.

Preference may be given to veterans who qualify under state and federal laws and regulations.

https://dhr.idaho.gov/StateEmployees/Benefits.html*Benefits may not be applicable for temporary or seasonal positions.