=== JOB DETAILS ===

Salary: $51,895.00 - $93,346.00 Annually
Location: Wake County, NC
Job Type: Permanent Full-Time
Job Number: 04032020-60088209
Department: State Board of Elections
Division: State Board of Elections
Opening Date: 04/03/2020
Closing Date: 4/17/2020 5:00 PM Eastern
Position Number: 60088209
Section: Elections Administration
Salary Grade: GN14

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

***Position is subject to reclassification.  Applicants must qualify for the minimum qualifications of a Program Manager I with at least one year of program management experience with a preference of three years program management experience.***
Max Salary: $83,025
Anticipated Pay Grade: GN15

Primary Purpose of the Organizational Unit:
The State Board of Elections oversees the enforcement of federal and state laws, rules and procedures governing the conduct of elections, voter registration, and campaign finance activities in North Carolina. The Election Administration unit develops and manages processes, procedures, and policies for the conduct of elections by the State Board of Elections and county boards of elections. Specific programs include voter registration, absentee voting, in-person voting, provisional voting, candidate filing, petitions, and other areas or special programs specific to election administration.


Primary Purpose of the Position:
This primary purpose of this position is to oversee and manage a team of program specialists and program assistants in developing processes, procedures, and policies for the conduct of elections by the State Board of Elections and county boards of elections, specifically voter registration, absentee voting, in-person voting, provisional voting, candidate filing, petitions, and other areas or special programs specific to election administration. This position works collaboratively with other agency divisions including Training & Outreach, Voting Systems, Campaign Finance, Business Operations, and IT. Provides election administration policy recommendations to the agency's Strategy Team and Executive Director.

Description of Work:

Directs and supervises multiple comprehensive election administration programs including voter registration, absentee voting, in-person voting, provisional voting, candidate filing, petitions, and other areas or special programs specific to election administration. 
Supervise elections administration staff in supporting county boards of elections' compliance with statutory regulations and standard operating procedures and processes. 
Work with Project Management Division to evaluate program application (SEIMS) systems' functionality to identify evaluate and recommend solutions, enhancements, or modifications needed for election administration procedures and processes. 
Work with Training & Outreach Team to develop and deliver training for elections officials in business and program processes. 
Analyze, evaluate, and make recommendations to Executive Director and Strategy Team regarding policy recommendations or process improvement pertaining to election administration. 



 

Ability to interpret, apply, and communicate statutory regulations pertaining to election administration in this State.
Ability to analyze, interpret, recommend, and implement elections policy, processes, and procedural guidelines.
Ability to plan, organize, and supervise the work of others.
Ability to train and manage employees engaged in specific election administration program and achieve program goals.
Ability to develop and maintain effective working relationships with coworkers, multiple governmental agencies, county election officials, and the general public.
Ability to convey information clearly and concisely either verbally or in writing to ensure that the intended audience understands the information.
Ability to listen and respond appropriately to others.
Ability to remain flexible to meet constantly changing and sometimes opposing demands.
Ability to work independently and use sound judgment in making decisions.

Management Preference:
Preferred candidate will have at least 3 years of program management experience.

Bachelor s degree from appropriately accredited institution in a discipline related to the area of assignment with three years of programmatic experience related to the area of assignment; or an equivalent combination of training and experience.

 For permanent appointments:State of North Carolina employees have the opportunity to participate in a compelling array of benefits to enhance their quality of life, their health, and their future. Benefits include employee health insurance options, standard and supplemental retirement plans, NC Flex (a variety of high-quality, low cost benefits on a pre-tax basis), and paid vacation, sick, and community service leave, to name a few.  Some benefits require 30 + hours work/week for participation. To find out about these, and other programs, please visit our Employee Benefits page: https://oshr.nc.gov/state-employee-resources/benefitsFor temporary, contract or other supplemental staffing appointments:**There are no paid leave, retirement or other benefits associated with these appointment types.** 


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Do you have experience working in Election Administration?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        2.	Please describe the value that you have added to the election administration process in your respective area?
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        