=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Administrative Specialist II (Elections Specialist)
Salary: $29.46 - $37.47 HOUR
Location: WA 98057-2906, WA, WA, 98104
Employer: King County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2026-09-10
Job Type: Term-Ltd
Job Number: 2026RL27976
Department: KCE - King County Elections
Division: Voter Services
Opening Date: 09/10/2026
Closing Date: 9/28/2026 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Non-Exempt
Bargaining Unit: F1A : L117-Admin
Full- or Part-Time: Full Time
Hours/Week: 40 hours/week

BENEFITS:
  • Excellent medical, dental, and vision coverage options: King County provides eligible employees with options, so they can decide what’s best for themselves and their eligible dependents
  • Life and disability insurance: employees are provided basic coverage and given the opportunity to purchase additional insurance for both the employee and eligible dependents
  • Retirement: eligible King County employees may participate in a pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems and a 457(b) deferred-compensation plan
  • Transportation program and ORCA transit pass
  • 12 paid holidays each year plus two personal holidays
  • Generous vacation and paid sick leave
  • Paid parental, family and medical, and volunteer leaves
  • Flexible Spending Account
  • Wellness programs
  • Onsite activity centers
  • Employee Giving Program
  • Employee assistance programs
  • Flexible schedules and telecommuting options, depending on position
  • Training and career development programs

For additional information about employee benefits, visit our
Benefits, Payroll, and Retirement Page
.
This is a general description of the benefits offered to eligible King County employees, and every effort has been made to ensure its accuracy.  If any information on this document conflicts with the provisions of a collective bargaining agreement (CBA), the CBA prevails.
NOTE:
Benefits for Term Limited Temporary (TLT) or Short Term Temporary (STT) positions, including leave eligibility and/or participation in the pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems, will vary based upon the terms and details of the position. Short Term Temporary positions are not eligible for an ORCA transit pass.
For inquiries about the specifics of this position, please contact the recruiter identified on this job posting.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

This is an amazing opportunity to be engaged in the election process!

This position will be filled as a Term-Limited Temporary (TLT) position or Special Duty Assignment (SDA) for current King County employees who have passed their initial probationary period. It is anticipated to last until December 2027.

The Department of Elections is searching for energetic and resourceful professionals who like to "get stuff done". The Administrative Specialist II positions in the Voter Services Department combines an exciting, fast-paced environment with the opportunity to cultivate talents and apply a variety of skills.  The ideal candidate will have a desire to help ensure the democratic process through public service.  They will thrive in an innovative environment and will not hesitate to roll up both sleeves, work hard, have fun, and get the job done.
   
Who We Are:  King County Elections (KCE) manages voter registrations and elections for more than 1.4 million voters in King County, one of the largest vote-by-mail counties in the United States. KCE's mission is to conduct accessible, secure, and accurate elections.  As a leader in providing inclusive elections, KCE is focused on core values of accuracy, equity, integrity, service, teamwork, and transparency. The team at KCE is committed to ensuring all King County voters can get registered, cast their ballot, and make their voices heard. Learn more at www.kingcounty.gov/elections.aspx.
   
Who May Apply:  This position is open to all qualified applicants.  Applications will be screened for qualifications and completion of all the required materials and forms. The most competitive applicants may be contacted for further steps in the selection process. This recruitment may also be used to create a list of candidates to fill current and future term-limited temporary (TLT) positions over the next 6 months.

Materials Required to Apply:  A completed online King County employment application at www.kingcounty.gov/jobs and a Resume is required with your submission.

Work Location(s):  The work associated with this position will be performed through a combination of mandatory on-site work with some telecommuting work as needed. The work site for this position is the Elections Building, 919 SW Grady Way in Renton. The position may also be frequently requested to work at additional off-site voting and registration centers throughout the county.
   
Work Schedule:  This position is subject to the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) and is overtime eligible. The workweek is typically 40 hours per week, Monday through Friday. This position is expected to be able to work during sudden changes to schedule that may include early mornings, late nights, weekends, and holidays during designated election times.  Mandatory overtime (including weekends or evenings) will be required during elections and other peak work periods.

Provide excellent customer service to internal and external customers in person, via telephone, and via e-mail by processing voter registrations, communicating election program information and explaining election procedures, guidelines and regulations. 
Perform production-level computer work which includes accurate data entry, retrieving and editing records. 
Organize and coordinate work activities and assist with providing training and one-on-one instruction to diverse staff. 
Set up records and file documents in both electronic and paper formats. 
Review documents for proper format, accuracy, completion, eligibility, and other legal guidelines. 
Audit work group data entry activities to ensure performance quality and efficiency of work. 
Utilize spreadsheets, word documents and reports to track and document performance data. 
Research and resolve questions from staff, citizens and stakeholders. 
Document and improve work processes, procedures and instructions.

Demonstrated ability to enter a high a volume of data into a production application with speed and accuracy.  Strong attention to detail with the ability to perform the repetitive tasks required for data entry. 
Demonstrated comfort with the use of personal computers, email and electronic record filing systems to create correspondence and spreadsheets, send and receive information, access and analyze data, and develop reports and outreach materials.
Demonstrated ability to work collaboratively with others on the team and in and outside of the department.
Demonstrated ability to maintain the integrity and confidentiality of the position. 
Commitment to providing excellent customer service through effective verbal and written communication. This can be demonstrated through establishing and maintaining effective relationships and building rapport with a variety of people through active, attentive listening, and respect for differing backgrounds and points of view. 
Demonstrated ability to receive feedback with grace and introspection and incorporate it into making meaningful changes. 
Demonstrated ability to learn quickly when facing new situations and opportunities. 
Demonstrated ability to approach tasks with energy and a sense of urgency, take on new opportunities, and handle tough situations. 
Demonstrated ability to switch between tasks with little to no notice and be able to manage competing priorities.

Desired Qualifications:

Experience with Microsoft Office Suite – specifically Word and Excel. 
Initiative in taking on new tasks and projects. 
Familiarity with diverse communities and direct community based or customer service based experience is preferred.

Travel to work locations throughout King County with limited or no public transportation services is required. A valid Washington State Driver's License is required to operate King County vehicles.
   
PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS:  The duties of this position are performed in an office setting and may be required to lift and/or move at least 25 pounds independently and up to 50 pounds in a team setting. Must have the ability to bend, kneel, stand, reach, climb, stoop, and squat.
   
UNION:  This position is represented by Teamsters Local 117, Professional & Technical and Administrative Employees.
   
Hybrid Work Environment
The work associated with this position will be performed through a combination of mandatory onsite work complemented with telecommuting work and meetings as needed. Employees must reside in Washington state and within a reasonable distance to their King County worksite to respond to workplace reporting requirements.
   
Employees will be provided with a County issued laptop and must maintain a workspace with an internet connection, where they can reliably perform work and remain available and responsive during scheduled work hours.  

King County has a robust collection of tools and resources to support working remotely. The individual selected for this opportunity will be joining an innovative and progressive team that is redefining how we work in the department's hybrid environment.
    
King County's Vision, Mission, and ACTIVATE Values unite us.

King County serves residents with a relentless sense of urgency, delivering on commitments with transparency and accountability. We are action-oriented, creative problem solvers who collaborate across roles, engage directly with communities, and challenge the status quo to achieve meaningful impact. As a unified team, we uphold high ethical and stewardship standards, embrace change, stay curious, and continuously improve. Across all interactions, we listen first, act quickly, and stay aligned as a team to earn and sustain public trust. Learn more about our Vision, Mission, and ACTIVATE Values here and visit our Why work at King County page here.

King County is an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Employer

No person is unlawfully excluded from employment opportunities based on sex, race, color, national origin, ethnicity, religious affiliation, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, age except by minimum age and retirement provisions, pregnancy, status as a family caregiver, parental status, marital status, military status or status as a veteran who was honorably discharged or who was discharged solely as a result of the person's sexual orientation or gender identity or expression, citizenship or immigration status, genetic information, or other protected class. However, to the extent that distinction or differential treatment on the basis of citizenship or immigration status is authorized by either federal or state law, regulation, or government contract, it is not an unfair practice.

Application Process

Are you ready to make a difference? Come join the team dedicated to serving one of the nation's best places to live, work and play.

If you are interested in pursuing this position and supporting King County’s vision for unified, equitable, and high-performing government, please follow the application instructions carefully. Provide us with your work history as applicable, ensuring that you provide details that highlight your ability to fulfill the requirements for this position.

If you need this announcement in an alternate language or format, or you would like to request accommodation or assistance in the application or assessment process, please contact Reeshema Lewis at Reeshema.Lewis@kingcounty.gov.