=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: County Clerk-Recorder Specialist
Salary: $43,201.60 - $57,886.40 YEAR
Location: Oroville/Chico Area, CA, CA, 95965
Employer: Butte County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2023-09-15
Job Type: Regular Help
Job Number: 2310731275
Department: Clerk-Recorder's Office
Division: Elections
Opening Date: 09/15/2023
Closing Date: 10/2/2023 11:59 PM Pacific

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===




 This recruitment is to fill vacancies in the Elections Division. 




Note: A training and experience evaluation may be utilized to determine an applicant's ranking among qualified candidates. Based upon information provided in this application including responses to supplemental questions, an applicant's education, training and experience (full-time equivalent) may be evaluated. Applicants should provide thoughtful and thorough responses to supplemental questions as they play an important role in this recruitment process.  All qualifying work experience that is described or included in responses to supplemental questions MUST also be included and detailed in the "Work Experience" section of this application. "See Resume" is not an acceptable response for any supplemental question. 




FLSA: Non-Exempt

DEFINITION

Under general direction, plans, develops, and implements special projects and/or programs for the Clerk-Recorder or the Elections Division; provides technical support, information, and assistance to assigned division within the Clerk-Recorder’s Office; and performs related duties as assigned. 

SUPERVISION RECEIVED AND EXERCISED

Receives general direction from Manager, Clerk-Recorder or designee. Exercises no direct supervision over staff. 

CLASS CHARACTERISTICS

This is the journey-level classification in the County Clerk-Recorder Specialist series responsible for managing assigned clerk-recorder or elections division projects and/or programmatic areas.  Positions at this level perform the full range of duties as assigned, work independently, and exercise judgment and initiative. This class is distinguished from the Senior County Clerk-Recorder Specialist in that the latter manages the more complex projects/programs assigned to the series and provides technical and functional direction over lower-level staff.

EXAMPLES OF TYPICAL JOB FUNCTIONS

Typical functions may include any of the following tasks, knowledge, abilities, and other characteristics. The list that follows is not intended as a comprehensive list; it is intended to provide a representative summary of the major duties and responsibilities. Incumbent(s) may not be required to perform all duties listed, and may be required to perform additional, position-specific tasks.

Plans, coordinates, and directs the day-to-day operations of assigned clerk-recorder or elections projects/programs; acts as a liaison between assigned projects/programs and related functions within the department and county and with federal, state, local, and community agencies as necessary. 
Develops and standardizes procedures and methods to improve and continuously monitor the efficiency and effectiveness of assigned projects/programs, service delivery methods, and policies and procedures; assesses and monitors workload and administrative systems; identifies opportunities for improvement and recommends to management for approval.
Develops, coordinates, and implements projects/programs related to the review, analysis, and verification a wide variety of legal documents and non-judicial filings and indexing and verification of vital records in compliance legal and recording requirements; provides training and guidance on determining the appropriate action to be initiated based upon content of documents.
Develops, coordinates, and implements projects/programs related to elections, such as candidate filings, poll workers, tabulation room, elections results verification and reporting, elections audit, school and special district governing board appointments, voter information guide, elected officials guide, Fair Political Practice Commission (FPPC) campaign disclosure, conflict of interest statements, and the Uniformed and Overseas Civilians Absentee Voting Act (UOCAVA) programs; ensures compliance with federal, state, and local laws, codes, rules, and regulations, as well as reporting requirements and professional practices. 
Programs and tests election equipment; designs, reviews, and builds electronic voting program for voters with disabilities; builds reports, exports data, and distributes to appropriate parties; leads logic and accuracy testing before the grand jury.
Plans, organizes, and coordinates the department's geographic information system (GIS) and specialized mapping programs; updates and maintains data pertaining to address updates, assignments, redistricting, annexations, and reapportionments.
Receives, reviews, and accepts passport applications from United States citizens for submittal to the United States Department of State Passport Services; explains requirements and procedures; coordinates and schedules appointments; processes and reviews applications; takes photos; collects processing fees; assembles and logs completed applications.
Researches and reviews legislative proposals and new laws or regulations to determine the impact on policies and procedures on assigned projects/programs; develops recommendations for policy and procedure changes and implements upon approval.
Performs research and analysis of information and statistical data; discusses analysis and conclusions with management staff and drafts reports; relieves management staff by following up on projects/programs, transmitting information, and keeping informed of pertinent activities.
Coordinates assigned projects and programs with other County departments, government agencies, civic and community organizations, and others as appropriate.
Provides customer service to the public, community organizations, and other agencies; receives, processes, and responds to escalated questions, complaints, and requests for information; provides information on processes and procedures; interprets and explains applicable federal, state, and local statutes and regulations; coordinates resolution to problems and issues. 
Oversees and participates in the calculation, collection, and acceptance of payments of fees; issues receipts; accounts for monies received daily by balancing against records of receipts; records transactions; generates invoice, attaches appropriate documentation, and submits to Auditor-Controller’s Department. 
Attends meetings, conferences, workshops, and training sessions and reviews publications to remain current on principles, practices, and new developments in the field of recording legal documents and election services.
Performs related duties as assigned.

Knowledge of:

Organizational practices as applied to the analysis, evaluation, development, and implementation of clerk-recorder and/or elections projects/programs, policies, and procedures. 
Principles of project/program planning, implementation, and evaluation and logistics with respect to customer service and service delivery.
Principles and techniques of research, data collection and analysis, and report preparation.
Business arithmetic and statistical techniques.
Applicable federal, state, and county laws, codes, rules, regulations, and standards and County and department policies and procedures related to clerk-recorder and elections projects/programs.
Principles and techniques for working with groups and fostering effective team interaction to ensure teamwork is conducted smoothly.
Techniques for providing a high level of customer service by effectively dealing with the public, vendors, contractors, and County staff.
The structure and content of the English language, including the meaning and spelling of words, rules of composition, and grammar.
Modern equipment and communication tools used for business functions and program, project, and task coordination, including computers, databases, and software programs relevant to work performed.

Ability To:

Develops, coordinates, and implements clerk-recorder and/or elections projects/programs.
Analyze, interpret, draw conclusions, summarize, and present information and data in an effective manner.
Evaluate and develop improvements in operations, procedures, policies, or methods.
Research, analyze, and evaluate new service delivery methods, procedures, and techniques.
Understand, interpret, and apply all pertinent laws, codes, regulations, policies and procedures, and standards relevant to work performed.
Interpret, summarize, and present administrative and technical documents, information, and data in an effective manner.
Prepare clear, concise, and complete reports, correspondence, and other written material.
Make accurate arithmetic and statistical calculations.  
Direct the establishment and maintenance of a variety of filing, recordkeeping, and tracking systems.
Effectively represent the department, division, program, and County in meetings with governmental agencies, community groups, various business, professional, and regulatory organizations, and in meetings with individuals. 
Independently organize work, set priorities, meet critical deadlines, and follow-up on assignments.
Effectively use computer systems, software applications relevant to work performed and modern business equipment to perform a variety of work tasks.
Communicate clearly and concisely, both orally and in writing, using appropriate English grammar and syntax.
Establish, maintain, and foster positive and effective working relationships with those contacted in the course of work.

Education and Experience:

Any combination of training, experience and educational degrees that would provide the required knowledge, skills, and abilities is qualifying. Substitutions will be made on a year for year basis. A typical way to obtain the required qualifications would be:

High school diploma or equivalent GED certificate; and

Five (5) years of increasingly responsible experience receiving, examining, indexing, processing, and recording a variety of legal documents; and/or experience with the election process.

Certifications and Licenses:

Must possess a valid US driver’s license upon date of application. Must obtain California driver’s license following hire date per California DMV regulations.

PHYSICAL DEMANDS

Mobility to work in a standard office setting and use standard office equipment, including a computer; to operate a motor vehicle and visit various County sites; primarily a sedentary office classification although standing in work areas and walking between work areas is required; bend, stoop, kneel, reach, push, and pull drawers open and closed to retrieve and file information; ability to lift, carry, push, and pull materials and objects up to 25 pounds.
Depending on assignment, mobility to work in a warehouse environment; ability to lift, carry, push, and pull materials and objects up to 50 pounds, in all cases with the use of proper equipment and/or assistance from other staff.
Vision to read printed materials and a computer screen. 
Hearing and speech to communicate in person and over the telephone. 
Finger dexterity is needed to access, enter and retrieve data using a computer keyboard or calculator and to operate standard office equipment. 

WORKING CONDITIONS

Office environment with moderate noise levels, controlled temperature conditions, and no direct exposure to hazardous physical substances. 
Employees may interact with upset staff and/or public and private representatives in interpreting and enforcing departmental policies and procedures. 
Must be willing to perform job duties outside of regular working hours.

EQUIPMENT AND TOOLS UTILIZED

Equipment utilized includes personal computer, scanners, calculator, cash register, standard office equipment, and motor vehicle.
Depending on assignment, may be required to utilize cameras and operate a forklift and pallet jacks.

Disaster Service Worker

All Butte County employees are designated Disaster Service Workers through state and local law (California Government Code Section 3100-3109). Employment with the County requires the affirmation of a loyalty oath to this effect. Employees are required to complete all Disaster Service Worker related training as assigned, and to return to work as ordered in the event of an emergency.

 Teamsters-Mid Management THESE BENEFITS DO NOT APPLY TO EXTRA HELP EMPLOYEESSalary Step Increases: The beginning salary and the top of the salary range are usually shown on the job announcement. Upon satisfactory service, salary increases of approximately 5% may be given annually until the top of the salary range has been attained. Cell Phone Allowance: County issued cell phone or $70/month allowance with appointing authority approval.  Boot Allowance: $200.04 annuallly, paid in equal monthly payments through regular pay checks.Holidays: 12 paid holidays per year.  Vacation: 0-4.99 years: 15 days/yr.; 5-9.99 years: 20 days/yr.; 10-19.99 years: 25 days/yr.; 20+ years: 27 days/yr. Note - accrued vacation leave may not be used until after six months of employment.Administrative Leave: 7 days per year for FLSA Exempt employees.   Sick Leave: 96 hours of sick leave are earned each year with no maximum accrual.Bereavement Leave: Maximum of 40 hours for each occurrence in the immediate family.Health Plan including Dental Insurance and Vision Insurance: Coverage under the Butte County Health Plan is for employees and their eligible dependents. Depending upon the plan selected by the employee, the County contributes a substantial amount of the total cost of the complete health package, which consists of medical, vision, and dental insurance. Currently, the amount the County contributes for family coverage is $1438.42/month. For those employees who have health coverage from other sources, and who elect to not participate in the Butte County Health Plan, the County offers a monthly taxable Cash-Back allowance. The current of the taxable Cash-Back allowance is $503.34 per month (prorated for less than fulltime employees). This benefit is $300 per month for Employees hired on or after January 1, 2014.Life Insurance: The County provides $25,000 in life insurance with additional coverage available at a minimal cost.Retirement: The County is in the Public Employees' Retirement System (CalPERS) coordinated with Social Security."Classic Members"- 2% @ 55. Final compensation based on Single Highest Year. Employee responsible for full 7% employee share effective 1/1/2013."New Members" to PERS- 2% @ 62. Final compensation based on Highest Three Year Average. Employee responsible for one half (1/2) the normal cost of the CalPERS Pension."New Member" is defined by law (PEPRA) as an "1) individual who has never been a member of any public retirement system prior to 1/1/2013 or 2) An individual who becomes a member of a public retirement system for the first time on or after January 1, 2013, and who was previously a member of a public retirement system, but who was not subject to reciprocity. or 3) An individual who was an active member in a public retirement system and who, after a break in service of more than six months, returned to active membership in that system with a new employerDeferred Compensation:The County offers a 457 Deferred Compensation program. Deposits into this plan are strictly voluntary and are made through a payroll deduction on a tax-deferred basis. The County does not make contributions to the employees' Deferred Compensation accounts.  Disability Insurance:For short-term disability, the County participates in California State Disability Insurance (SDI) fund. County employees are also covered by an employee-paid long-term disability program. The long-term disability insurance benefit is 60% of the disabled employee's biweekly wage.  Flexible Spending Program:County employees can elect to participate in a Flexible Spending Program. This program allows employees to use pre-tax dollars to pay for certain health care and/or dependent care expenses. In addition, employees can choose to have their portion of the monthly Health Plan premium withheld from their checks on a pre-tax basis as well. Generally, employees who participate in the Flexible Spending Program have less taxes withheld for their payroll checks than if they had elected not to do so.  Tuition Reimbursement: Up to $500/year.Employee Assistance Program (EAP): The County of Butte provides an Employee Assistance Program (EAP) for employees and their eligible dependents. The EAP offers confidential, professional counseling services.Refer to specific labor agreements (BCEA-General) for additional benefit information.BUTTE COUNTY IS AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYERAny information on this page or links is subject to change without notice.Butte County Human Resources Department3 County Center Drive, Oroville, CA 95965(530) 552.3552Comments, please email: personnel@buttecounty.net 


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Any combination of training, experience and educational degrees that would provide the required knowledge, skills, and abilities is qualifying. Substitutions will be made on a year for year basis. 
A typical way to obtain the required qualifications would be:

High school diploma or equivalent GED certificate; and

Five (5) years of increasingly responsible experience receiving, examining, indexing, processing, and recording a variety of legal documents; and/or experience with the election process.

***Answer must be supported by work experience detailed in this application.

Please explain how you meet the minimum qualifications listed. In your explanation, please include reference to work experience detailed in this application.
        
        
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        What answer accurately reflects the number of years' experience of receiving, examining, indexing, processing, and recording a variety of legal documents; and/or experience with the election process.

*One year equals 2,080 hours.
        
        
                Less than 5 Years
                5 - 6 Years
                6 - 7 Years
                7 - 8 Years
                More than 8 Years
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Your responses to the following questions and any information in your application may be used to make a better assessment of your qualifications. This questionnaire may be used to rate your qualifications and to determine your ranking on the eligible list. Thus, it is to your advantage to be as clear and thorough as possible when completing the supplemental questions.

Has you work experience included any of the following? Select all that apply.

***Answer must be supported by work experience detailed in this application.
        
        
                Computer data entry
                Develop procedures to improve the efficiency of assigned projects/programs,
                Analyze, interpret, draw conclusions and present information and data in an effective manner.
                Make accurate arithmetic and statistical calculations.
                Effectively use computer systems, software applications relevant to work performed.
                Techniques for providing a high level of customer service
                Face-to-face public interaction
                Work in a Clerk-Recorder's Office
                Work for a government agency
                Examination of forms, applications, and legal documents for accuracy and completeness
                Work supporting an official election, ballot processing.
                Explaining laws and regulations to the general public
                Hard-copy file record keeping
                None of the above
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Please support your answer to question number three (3) by providing specific examples of work duties you have performed and include references to work experience you have listed in this application.
        
        
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        What is your highest level of education?
        
        
                High school diploma or GED equivalent
                Some college
                Associate's degree
                Bachelor's degree
                Master's degree or higher
                None of the above
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Do you possess a US Driver's License?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        How did you discover this job opportunity?
        
        
                Butte County Website
                Butte County Human Resources Social Media
                CareersInGovernment.com
                County Employee
                Craigslist.com
                Facebook
                Friend or Relative (word of mouth)
                GovernmentJobs.com
                Handshake
                Indeed.com
                Job Fair
                Job Interest Card - GovernmentJobs.com
                Linkedin
                Newspaper - Paper or Online
                Departmental Email
                Radio
                Magazine
                Billboard
                Other
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        