=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: State Administrative Manager 15 - Litigation and Enforcement Manager
Salary: $93,681.00 - $134,751.00 YEAR
Location: Lansing, MI, MI, 48909
Employer: State of Michigan
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2025-02-06
Job Type: Permanent Full Time
Remote Employment: Flexible/Hybrid
Job Number: 2301-25-BOE048
Department: Department of State
Opening Date: 02/07/2025
Closing Date: 2/17/2025 11:59 PM Eastern
Bargaining Unit: NON-EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTED EMPLOYEE (NERE)

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===







THIS POSITION IS BEING REPOSTED TO INCREASE THE APPLICANT POOL. IF YOU PREVIOUSLY APPLIED YOU 
DO NOT NEED TO REAPPLY AS YOUR APPLICATION IS STILL UNDER CONSIDERATION.




This position serves as the manager of the Bureau of Elections Litigation and Enforcement Section. This section coordinates and conducts enforcement actions under Michigan Election Law, Michigan Campaign Finance Act, Michigan Lobbyist Registration Act, and other laws the Bureau is responsible for administering. The section also works with the Department of Attorney General on litigation in cases where the Director of Elections, Bureau of Elections or Board of State Canvassers are involved.


Position Description (Download PDF reader)

MDOSJOBS

Education
Possession of a bachelor's degree in any major.

Experience 

Four years of professional experience, including two years equivalent to the experienced (P11) level or one year equivalent to the advanced (12) level.

Alternate Education and Experience

Education level typically acquired through completion of high school and two years of safety and regulatory or law enforcement experience at the 14 level; or, one year of safety and regulatory or law enforcement experience at the 15 level, may be substituted for the education and experience requirements.

OR


At least an educational level typically acquired through completion of high school AND at least four years of professional experience including two years equivalent to the experienced (P11) level or one year equivalent to the advanced (12) level gained in the State of Michigan classified service.




You must apply for this vacancy through the NEOGOV system; click on "Apply" in the job posting for instructions in submitting your electronic application. Your application for any position does not guarantee that you will be contacted by the Department for further consideration. Only those applicants interviewed will be notified of the results.

Please attach a resume, cover letter, and copy of your official transcripts (if applicable) to your application. Failure to attach these documents may result in your application being screened out.



     As outlined by Civil Service, an official transcript must bear the applicant’s name, college, or university certification (e.g., seal, logo, watermark, or       letterhead), date and name of the conferred degree and registrar’s signature. Transcripts that do not meet these requirements are considered               unofficial. For more information regarding official transcripts, click here (Download PDF reader).



     Applicants who possess a degree from a foreign college or university must have their academic credentials evaluated or converted into U.S.                 educational equivalents unless the degree has been recognized by the Council on Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA).  Go to evaluators for a         list of accepted organizations that evaluate foreign credentials.  Failure to provide this evaluation at the time of application may result in you               being screened out of the process.


Please attach one of the following to your application: a legal memo, pleading, opinion, or administrative determination that you have drafted (redact if necessary). 

Civil Service Commission Rule 2-7 requires that all newly hired state employees submit to and pass a pre-employment drug test prior to their actual appointment.  Due to the nature of work of the Department of State, criminal records will be checked.  Any position offer will be conditional until results of the criminal background record checks indicate eligibility for employment.


Your application for any position does not guarantee that you will be contacted by the Department for further consideration.  Only those applicants interviewed will be notified of the results.


View the job specification at: Current Job Specification (michigan.gov) 



Accommodations
If you require a reasonable accommodation to participate in the application or selection processes, please contact the ADA coordinator (Download PDF reader) for the agency that posted this position vacancy.