=== JOB DETAILS ===

Salary: $2,304.00 - $2,879.00 Monthly
Location: Castle Rock, CO
Job Type: Full-Time Temporary
Job Number: 1610S 11/18/19
Department: Clerk & Recorder
Opening Date: 11/18/2019
Closing Date: 12/4/2019 12:00 AM Mountain
FLSA: Non-Exempt

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

This position serves as office support for the Elections Division of the Clerk and Recorder's Office.  The Election Clerk provides customer service, assists with clerical functions, and performs data entry for voter registration.  Other duties in support of the conduct of elections or mail ballot processing may be assigned. Must be detail oriented, well organized, productive, and able to adapt in a high change environment. This role requires both independent judgment and the ability to work well as a part of a team. Professional representation of the Clerk and Recorder's Office to the public is required to include standards outlined in the Vision, Mission, and Core Values of the Office. 

ESSENTIAL DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES: (The following examples are illustrative only and are not intended to be all inclusive.)
 
Provides daily customer service; answers phones; greets and serves in person customers.
Performs general scanning, typing, filing, and collating functions.
Performs complex data entry for new, changed, and canceled voter registrations.
Performs verification and tracking of data entry.
Assists with election judge coordination.
Assists with processing incoming and outgoing mail.
Administers state election laws and rules, and federal election laws to provide successful voting experience to staff and public.
Maintains confidentiality of information consistent with applicable federal, state and county rules, and regulations.
Provides support to election coordination, including deployment of materials to coordinating entities and Voter Service and Polling Center.  This task may require operation of a motor vehicle.
Assists with various special projects.
Lives out the Vision, Mission, and Core Values of the Clerk and Recorder's Office, maintains a supportive environment conducive to teamwork. 
Performs other duties as assigned.

EDUCATION and/or EXPERIENCE: 
Generally, a high school diploma or GED supplemented by 2 or more years' recent office experience, and/or previous experience in county elections preferred. Previous customer service experience required.

 
KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS AND ABILITIES:

Knowledge: 
 
Knowledge in the State of Colorado Registration and Elections (SCORE) system within the past year is strongly desired.

Skills: 
 
Typing and data entry testing is required and must be able to type 30 accurate words per minute and any other additional testing as needed.
Proficient skill levels in most current Microsoft Office Suite, including Outlook, Word, and Excel preferred.
Previous use of SharePoint preferred.

Abilities: 
 
Must be able to communicate effectively in both oral and written form, as well as fluently speak, read, and write English. 
Recognizes and uses correct English grammar, punctuation, and spelling, produces written information that is appropriate for the intended audience.
Ability to effectively present information and communicate to a wide variety of audiences.
Ability to apply common sense understanding to interpret and carry out a variety of instructions in written, verbal, or diagram form.
Ability to manage and perform a variety of duties, often changing from one task to another of a different nature, without loss of efficiency or composure.
Ability to understand and comply with election law and Secretary of State rules as they relate to security and election equipment (including but not limited to Title 1 C.R.S, SoS Rules Concerning Elections).
Ability to work effectively both independently and in a team environment.
Ability to manage multiple activities concurrently, allocating time to each.
Ability to prioritize.
Ability to add, subtract, multiply, and divide in all units of measure, using whole numbers, common fractions, and decimals.
Excellent reasoning and troubleshooting abilities.
Practice and promote teamwork; establish and maintain effective work relationships at all levels.

CERTIFICATIONS, LICENSES, & REGISTRATIONS:
 
Must have and maintain a valid Colorado Driver's License and complying Colorado Insurance.
US citizenship required.
Must pass state and/or national criminal background check annually.

The ability to successfully complete pre-employment screening including but not limited to: reference checks, criminal background (to include fingerprinting through a national data base), motor vehicle record, and drug screen is required.

SUPERVISION RECEIVED: 
This position receives frequent supervision and feedback on performance.
           
SUPERVISORY RESPONSIBILITIES: 
This position has no direct supervisory responsibility and may occasionally assist with monitoring election judges and temporary employees.
 
INDEPENDENT JUDGMENT: 
This position requires a working knowledge of election processes, election statutes, and office procedures. 
Identify opportunities for process and/or productivity improvements and notify supervisor.
Effectively utilize resources (reports, policies, experience, and job knowledge) to draw logical conclusions to problems.
Decisions are guided by governing statutes and rules, department/division policies, and operating procedures under direction of the Deputy of Elections, Operations Manager, and Lead Elections Specialist.

WORK ENVIRONMENT:
 
Physical Work Environment: 
Work is generally performed in an office or warehouse environment.
This position is subject to "blackout" periods meaning non-emergent time off requests for the duration of employment will not be considered. Manager and/or County Clerk and Recorder, based on workloads and demands, may identify additional blackout periods on the weekend or in the evenings, with little notice.
Extended work hours may be required to include evenings, weekends and holidays.
Pay periods occur monthly on the last working day of the month.
 
Physical Demands: 
Required to stand, walk, sit, talk, hear, and drive. 
Specific vision abilities required by this job include vision and the ability to adjust focus, using mainly a laptop computer screen.
Occasional heavy lifting 35 pounds or more.
Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions.
           
Material and Equipment Directly Used:
Standard office equipment used daily.
 
In the event of an emergency/disaster in or near the County, all County employees are expected to make every effort to be available to assist the County Manager, Elected/Appointed Officials and Department Directors to ensure the continued operation of any and all necessary County functions.  This may mean being available to perform additional duties and hours beyond what is normally required.  In the event that an exempt employee does work more than 40 hours a week in support of County operations during an emergency, such employee may receive overtime or other appropriate wage compensation in accordance with existing County policies or at the discretion of the County.

Douglas County offers a limited benefits package for this temporary position.  This position is eligible for medical insurance and paid County Holidays.  Part-time employees receive a pro-rated benefits package.