=== JOB DETAILS ===

Salary: $61,665.36 - $74,954.52 Annually
Location: Martinez, CA
Job Type: Permanent Full-Time
Job Number: ALHB-2019A
Department: Clerk - Recorder
Division: Elections
Opening Date: 11/04/2019
Closing Date: 12/1/2019 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Exempt
Bargaining Unit: ZA

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

**Bargaining Unit: Local 21

Are you an innovator and high achiever? Service driven? Dedicated to quality? Want to be a part of a nationally recognized Election Team?
 
We are seeking an experienced election administration professional to plan and supervise voter registration, customer service, and vote-by-mail operations in one of the state and nation's largest counties.
 
Contra Costa County currently has more than 630,000 registered voters and a population of 1.1 million. Located in the San Francisco Bay Area, Contra Costa County offers great salary and benefits in addition to a collaborative and fast paced work environment. If your election experience includes tremendous overtime during an election, be prepared for a new experience.

We are looking for someone who is:

A collaborative leader and coach
A planner and organizer
Committed to continuous improvement
A problem solver
Committed to public service
Adaptable
Knowledgeable and experienced in election administration

What you will typically be responsible for:
Trains staff and ensures accurate work products using quality control practices
Directly supervises and evaluates up to 6 permanent staff and up to 20 temporary staff
Actively participates in division planning, research and decision-making activities
Develops and updates processes and procedures to meet program needs
Directs the voter registration program including regular voter file maintenance and related voter notifications
Directs the vote by mail program, including issuance, return and canvassing of ballots
Directs processes for examining petitions and signature verification
Supervises the process of reviewing and adjudicating provisional ballots
Directs processes for military and overseas, confidential, and emergency voting
Supervises phone and in-person customer services

A few reasons you might love this job:
Ability to serve your community through public service
Opportunity to work in a collaborative team environment
Chance to be a part of democracy in action
Be part of a highly respected elections team
Develop a competency and understanding of multiple election functions

A few challenges you might face in this job:
Legislation and regulations regularly change therefore processes and procedures need to be regularly updated
During peak election times the number of team members requiring training, managing, supervising increases significantly
Team work expectations require supporting the work of other elections functions

Desirable Qualifications:
High Emotional Intelligence
CalPEAC and/or CERA certification
Fluency in Spanish, Chinese, Korean, Vietnamese or Tagalog
Management and Supervisor Classes or Training

Directs the voter registration program and related documents
Directs polling place/poll worker recruitment and training
Directs precinct and district mapping programs
Directs warehouse operations
Directs mailing piece design; coordination of postal approvals; maintenance of adequate funds in postal permit accounts; tracking of postage expenses
Directs the preparation and inventory maintenance of election supplies and forms.
Directs the issuance, return and canvassing of absentee ballots
Directs the maintenance of the signature image file for petition and signature checking
Directs ballot layout and ballot tabulation
Directs election result reporting and canvass processes
Directs the service and maintenance of voting and tabulation equipment
Prepares and monitors a detailed schedule of events for all election activities in the unit and issues a daily status report highlighting critical events
Maintains election related statistics and prepares reports, as directed
Maintains and updates the Elections Division website, as directed
Coordinates work schedules with other departmental sections to ensure that critical events are properly carried out and accomplished within the established timeframe
Develops and updates forms and procedures to meet current election laws and State and Federal regulations related to voter registration; candidate filing; absentee ballots; precinct/mapping programs; warehouse operations and equipment maintenance; election officer recruitment and training; polling places; ballot layout and tabulation, election results reporting, canvass processes and other election programs
Trains, directly supervises and evaluates up to 20 temporary staff and 4 to 6 permanent staff
Responds to the most complicated requests or questions from the public or other agencies concerning elections processes and procedures
Prepares correspondence; plans, coordinates and prepares publications for various legal notices of election and submission of arguments on local measures
Plans, coordinates and supervises the candidate filing process including processing, reviewing and determining the qualification of candidate documents for all federal, state and local offices
Verifies residency and political affiliation
Determines and accepts candidate filing fees
Reviews and accepts candidate statement of qualifications
Develops, coordinates, and supervises implementation of campaign reporting requirements
Receives and prepares election resolutions
Develops and compiles elections calendars for the Primary, General, regularly scheduled district and special elections
Contacts and coordinates with a variety of jurisdictions holding elections to make preliminary arrangements of the type of election services that are to be provided by this department
Determines which candidates are elected or appointed to each office and prepares all certificates of appointments, election and appointments in lieu of the election
Prepares oaths of office for schools, districts, and local offices
Manages the Automated Phone System to ensure that all incoming calls are appropriately handled by elections staff
Supervises front counter telephone and receptionist personnel and their related activities
Directs and participates in logic and accuracy testing of voting equipment
Prepares and conducts Secretary of State auto-certification testing during statewide elections
Support to other units as necessary

License Required: Candidates must possess and maintain throughout the duration of employment a valid California Motor Vehicle Operator's License. Out of State valid Motor Vehicle Operator's will be accepted during the application's process.

Education: Possession of a high school diploma, G. E. D. equivalency, or a high school proficiency certificate.

Experience: Four (4) years of full-time, or its equivalent, clerical experience, at least one (1) year of which must have been in a supervisory or lead capacity working with departmental staff, the public and interdepartmental personnel conducting elections in a public office.

Substitution: Possession of an Associate of Arts degree from an accredited college with major coursework in public administration, business, or political science may be substituted for two (2) years of the required experience excluding one (1) year of lead or supervisory experience conducting elections in a public office.

Application Appeal Period: December 2, 2019 through December 6, 2019
Tentative Oral Board Scheduled for: December 17, 2019
 
1. Application Filing:  All applicants must apply on-line at www.cccounty.us/hr and submit the information as indicated on the job announcement by the final filing date.

2. Application Evaluation: Depending on the number of applications received, an Application Evaluation Board may be convened to evaluate and select the best-qualified candidates for invitation to the next phase of the examination.

3. Oral Interview: Conducted by a Qualifications Appraisal Board who will evaluate candidates in job-related areas.
 

The Human Resources Department may change the examination steps noted above in accordance with the Personnel Management Regulations and accepted selection practices.
 

CONVICTION HISTORY
After you receive a conditional job offer, you will be fingerprinted, and your fingerprints will be sent to the California Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). The resulting report of your conviction history (if any) will be used to determine whether the nature of your conviction conflicts with the specific duties and responsibilities of the job for which you have received a conditional job offer. If a conflict exists, you will be asked to present any evidence of rehabilitation that may mitigate the conflict, except when federal or state regulations bar employment in specific circumstances. Having a conviction history does not automatically preclude you from a job with Contra Costa County. If you accept a conditional job offer, the Human Resources department will contact you to schedule a fingerprinting appointment.
 
DISASTER SERVICE WORKER
All Contra Costa County employees are designated Disaster Service Workers through state and local law. Employment with the County requires the affirmation of a loyalty oath to this effect. Employees are required to complete all Disaster Service Worker-related training as assigned, and to return to work as ordered in the event of an emergency.
 
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
It is the policy of Contra Costa County to consider all applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, ethnicity, age, disability, sexual orientation, gender, gender identify, gender expression, marital status, ancestry, medical condition, genetic information, military or veteran status, or other protected category under the law.

To find more information on Benefits offered by Contra Costa County, please go to https://www.contracosta.ca.gov/1343/Employee-Benefits


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        The purpose of this supplemental questionnaire is to provide applicants the opportunity to elaborate on their qualifications for the Voter Services Supervisor position.

Resumes may be attached, but not submitted in lieu of completing the supplemental questionnaire or the work experience section of the application.

Do not answer any of the questions below by indicating, "see attached resume". Be brief and concise limiting your responses to the information that is relevant to each question.

Please respond yes or no below, that you understand and acknowledge this information.
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        I qualify for this position by holding a:
        
        
                high school diploma
                G. E. D. equivalency
                high school proficiency certificate
                I do not meet this qualification
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        I qualify for this position by:

1) having four (4) years of full-time, or its equivalent, clerical experience.

2) At least one (1) year of those four (4) years was in a supervisory or lead capacity working with departmental staff, the public, and interdepartmental personnel conducting elections in a public office.
        
        
                Yes, I meet both requirements above.
                No, I do not meet both requirements above.
                I qualify for this position via the substitution for experience.
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Substitution for Experience: 

I qualify for this position by:

1)  Possession of an Associate of Arts degree from an accredited college with major coursework in public administration, business, or political science.
2) Two (2) years of full-time, or its equivalent, clerical experience
3) At least one (1) year of those four (4) years was in a supervisory or lead capacity working with departmental staff, the public, and interdepartmental personnel conducting elections in a public office.
        
        
                Yes, I meet all 3 requirements above.
                I do not meet all of the 3 requirements above.
                This question does not apply to me because i qualify for this position by having Four (4) years of full-time clerical experience, and at least one (1) year of which was in a supervisory or lead capacity conducting elections in a public office.
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        The position you are applying for is permanent and full-time. If in the future a position becomes available in a different status what type of positions would you like to be considered? Select all that apply.

**If you make the eligible list for this recruitment, you will NOT be referred to any positions with the criteria below unless it is selected.**
        
        
                I am only interested in Permanent Full-Time positions
                Permanent Part-Time (Regularly scheduled 20 hours per week; prorated vacation, sick leave; eligible for medical/dental benefits; retirement plan)
                Temporary Full-Time (Regularly scheduled hours per week; PTO ; medical coverage available wholly at employee's expense)
                Temporary Part-Time (Regularly scheduled hours per week; PTO ; medical coverage available wholly at employee's expense)
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        I certify that I meet the announced requirements for this examination and understand that I will be eliminated at any stage in such examination if it develops that, in fact, I do not meet them. I further certify that all statements made in this supplemental questionnaire and application are true and I agree and understand that misstatements or omissions of material facts will cause forfeiture of my rights to employment with Contra Costa County.
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        