=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Election Specialist Trainee
Salary: $2,760.00 - $2,917.00 MONTH
Location: Sangamon County, IL, IL, 62706
Employer: State of Illinois
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2022-08-29
Job Type: Full-Time
Job Number: SBE08302222
Department: Elections Board *
Opening Date: 08/30/2022
Closing Date: 9/13/2022 4:00 PM Central

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Summary of Benefits: This position title is eligible for our hybrid telework arrangement (up to 2 remote days per week) and tuition reimbursement programs (100% of tuition costs covered). Upon accepting this position, you will be eligible to enroll into the State of Illinois Group Insurance Program, which includes various highly competitive and low cost coverage options for health, dental, vision, and life insurance. In addition this position offers a competitive time off package, including: 12 paid sick days per calendar year (accrual basis); a minimum of 10 paid vacation days per calendar year (accrual basis); 3 personal days per calendar year; and 12 paid state holidays per calendar year.

 

The SBE welcomes all and promotes workplace diversity. It is our individual traits, character, and experiences that make each of us special and unique. It is only when we bring that individualism together and work as a diverse team that we thrive. There is no place for discrimination based on race, religion, culture, sexual identity or orientation, age, or disability at the State Board of Elections.


 Under direct supervision of Voting and Registration Systems (VRS) personnel, during a training period of up to 12 months in order to qualify for the target title position of an Election Specialist I, provides assistance in the operations of the division’s activities and programs; assists with data analysis to ensure accuracy; assists with voting system testing.

Acquires skills needed to provide election system support to election jurisdictions and/or vendors and to navigate the Illinois Voter Registration System (IVRS). Assists with setting up IVRS accounts and provides support with IVRS training that is provided to the election jurisdictions. Acquires skills in order to answer questions from election authorities, vendors, and the general public pertaining to the IVRS database, voting systems, pretesting, public testing, and referenda.

Assists with the testing of vote tabulation equipment, including voting system approval testing and SBE Special Testing. Assists with the collection of information pertaining to voting systems, including, but not limited to, systems in use in the state of Illinois, pre-election testing, and post-election auditing. Provides assistance with testing new views, troubleshooting, and resolving issues within IVRS.

Utilizes knowledge and skills from working environment in order to complete all projects. Assists with updating and revising division documents, gains skills and knowledge of election-related opinions, statute, and legislation pertaining to division responsibilities.

Assists with monitoring of public viewing stations, including the processing of viewer information and ensuring that viewers use proper procedures. Develops knowledge in order to answer questions and concerns from election authorities and the general public on a variety of election-related topics.

Performs other duties as required or assigned which are reasonably within the scope of the duties enumerated above.






Requires Bachelor’s Degree preferably with course work in accounting, public administration, business administration, political science, or a related field. Requires ability to conduct research on election data, learn the functionality of voting systems, and to analyze current rules and policies pertaining to elections. Requires excellent computer and mathematical skills. Occasional travel required.

Target Title:  Election Specialist I




State Board of Elections
2329 S. MacArthur Blvd.
Springfield, IL 62704
8:00 am - 4:30 pm
Danielle Martinez
Human Resource Manager
Phone 217/782-1527
DMartinez@elections.il.gov

The SBE is a non-code agency and DOES NOT accept CMS 100 applications.
Click : download a State Board of Elections Employment Application (Download PDF reader)

Please complete the application and send it along with an updated resume by email
DMartinez@elections.il.gov

Fax: 217/558-5401

or

Mail to:
State Board of Elections
Attn: Danielle Martinez
2329 S. MacArthur Blvd.
Springfield, IL 62704

Applications must be received by 4:00 pm on Tuesday, September 13th,  2022. Applications received after this time will not be accepted.

 

BENEFITS FOR STATE EMPLOYEESState of Illinois employees may be eligible for a variety of benefits associated with their employment. From a comprehensive health and dental insurance program, to vacation and sick leave days and a generous retirement plan, the State of Illinois offers a competitive benefits program for state employees. To learn more about the benefits of state employment, please explore the links below:Healthcare Benefits:The State offers its employees a comprehensive health and dental program along with a wide array of supplemental insurance programs. Illinois has long been committed to providing employees with the best possible insurance benefits at the greatest possible value.Retirement Benefits:In addition to health and dental insurance programs, state employees are offered a generous pension program with options that can be tailored to meet employees' needs.Workplace Benefits:State employees may also be eligible for other benefits such as holidays, annual leave and sick leave.Visit our Illinois Benefits website to see a more detailed summary of other benefits which are available to state employees.Note: The above benefits are available to most state employees with the exception of those in temporary positions. Employees in temporary, part-time and student worker positions may be eligible for all, some or none of these benefits.