=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Assistant Absentee By Mail Supervisor
Salary: $41,589.85 - $53,027.06 YEAR
Location: Marietta, GA, GA, 30090
Employer: Cobb County Government
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2023-12-28
Job Type: Full-Time
Job Number: 02967
Department: Elections
Opening Date: 12/29/2023
Closing Date: 1/12/2024 11:59 PM Eastern
Grade Code: 105

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

The purpose of this position is to perform entry-level duties to assist in overseeing advance voting by mail day-to-day operations of receiving absentee ballot applications, issuing ballots, receiving returned ballots, and counting accepted ballots, all according to prescribed deadlines and security mandates. 

The position maintains adequate staffing based on changing workloads, supervises work product accuracy, responds to voter issues and complaints, updates and creates all procedures, forms, checklists and coversheets used within the absentee mail operation, and administers the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act.  Work is performed under the immediate supervision and guidance of a Registration & Elections Supervisor for the assigned area. Ability to work long hours and weekends are required during election cycles.
 
 Must be a US Citizen with no Felony Convictions and registered to vote.  

Leads and coordinates daily work activities of assigned co-workers: confers with supervisor to obtain direction regarding work assignments and priorities; organizes tasks in order to complete assigned work; monitors status of work in progress and inspects completed work; confers with co-workers, assists with complex situations, and provides technical expertise; assists with training and instructing co-workers regarding operational procedures and proper use of equipment; assists with scheduling of staff and staff training; and provides input on disciplinary action and employee performance evaluations. 




Completes data entry, filing, and other administrative tasks: creates and maintains spreadsheets; merges data into documents using templates; creates required forms and materials specific to each precinct.


Assists in procuring office and election supplies; maintains accountable equipment inventory; maintains voting equipment inventory; uses barcodes, scanning equipment and physical inspection to track equipment location.





In conjunction with the Absentee Supervisor, oversees all aspects of the Advance Voting by Mail operations: accepts applications for absentee ballots by mail and in-person; assists voters and answers questions by mail, in-person and telephone; supervise and assist in processing mailed, e-mailed and faxed applications, issuing ballots, mailing ballots and verifying and entering returned ballots; communicates with voters by phone, e-mail, and mail regarding any application or ballot issuance problems.
 
Assist military and overseas voters by e-mail, letters, and phone calls to answer questions and inform them of their various voting options; ensure state and federal laws are followed; assist in completing the Federal Voter Assistance Program (FVAP) report required by the federal government after the election.
 
Hires, trains and supervises part time, seasonal, or temporary workers assists with staffing projections; coordinates and prioritizes daily work activities in assigned area; provides input on disciplinary action and employee performance evaluations.




Performs other related duties as assigned.

Minimum Qualifications

High School Diploma or GED required; supplemented by three years of experience in Elections operations; or any equivalent combination of education, training, and experience which provides the requisite knowledge, skills, and abilities for this job. 

Preferred Qualifications

Absentee By Mail Elections Experience Preferred 

Tasks require the ability to exert very moderate physical effort in light work, typically involving some combination of stooping, kneeling, crouching and crawling, and which may involve some lifting, carrying, pushing and/or pulling of objects and materials of moderate weight (12-20 pounds).

Sensory Requirements

Some tasks require the ability to communicate orally.

Environmental Factors

Essential functions are regularly performed without exposure to adverse environmental conditions.

EEO Statement
Cobb County is an equal opportunity employer. Cobb County Government does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, religion, age or disability in employment or the provision of services.