=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Election Worker - Office Assistant (Extra Help, Seasonal)
Salary: $24.91 - $24.91 HOUR
Location: County of San Mateo, CA, CA, 94063-1663
Employer: County of San Mateo
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2026-07-13
Job Type: Extra Help Seasonal
Job Number: E334AW
Department: Assessor-County Clerk-Recorder
Division: Elections
Opening Date: 07/13/2026
Bargaining Unit: 37

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

PEOPLE FIRST – Conduct fair, accurate, secure, and transparent elections to increase public participation and confidence.
The San Mateo County Registration & Elections Division is seeking full-time, seasonal Election Worker – Office Assistants to assist in the upcoming November 3, 2026, Statewide General Election. This is an excellent opportunity to be involved in the election process!
 
The Elections Division is an exciting, fast-paced environment, especially as elections approach. This is an excellent opportunity to work with a group of dynamic, well-organized, and highly efficient individuals committed to the democratic process. More information about the organization is available on the Elections Division website www.smcacre.gov.
   
We are currently seeking dedicated, enthusiastic and hard-working individuals for temporary, full-time positions to be hired into one of the following areas:

BALLOT RETRIEVAL
Requirements

Must have a valid CA driver’s license and be able to drive County vehicles (cargo van/SUV/car) to various San Mateo County locations accompanied by a partner throughout the day (and evenings as necessary)
Must possess attention to detail
Must be able to perform ballot retrievals according to detailed procedures
Must be able to lift 50 lbs.

Duties May Include:

Retrieving voted ballots from Vote Centers and Ballot Drop Boxes throughout San Mateo County
Delivering voted ballots to San Mateo County Registration & Elections Division
Delivering supplies to Vote Centers
Will also assist with Vote by Mail processing



VOTE BY MAIL

Requirements: 
Must be able to lift 25 lbs.
Must possess great attention to detail

Duties May Include:

Retrieving ballots from local post office
Driving a County van
Processing Vote by Mail ballots
Performing repetitive work
Operating ballot processing equipment
Scanning and adjudicating ballots



VOTER REGISTRATION/CLERICAL SUPPORT

Requirements:
Must possess great attention to detail
Must have working knowledge of computer software, including Microsoft Office Suite programs like Word and Excel
Must be able to consistently follow complex written procedures

Duties May Include:

Data entry and database maintenance
Updating voter registration records based on information from statewide voter registration database and other governmental agencies
Preparing, verifying, and processing provisional ballots, including a review of challenged ballots
Preparing, verifying, and processing petitions, including nominations, initiatives, and recall petitions and performing second-level petition verifications

VOTER HELPDESK SUPPORT

Requirements:

Must have working knowledge of computer software, including Microsoft Office Suite programs like Word and Excel
Must possess great attention to detail
Must be able to consistently follow complex written procedures
Duties May Include: 
Assisting election staff at Vote Centers over the phone
Answering questions about procedures
Providing limited technical support based on pre-established procedures and guidelines
Data entry

SUPPLIES 

Requirements:

Must be able to lift 25 lbs.
Must be able to follow detailed written procedures
Must have basic working knowledge of Microsoft Office Suite, including Word and Excel
Duties May Include:
Inventorying and packing/unpacking Vote Center supplies
Fulfilling inventory/supply lists for multiple Vote Centers
Recording and updating inventory numbers regularly
Operating pallet jacks and other devices to safely relocate supplies
Accepting shipments and packages to the warehouse

FIELD TECHS/WAREHOUSE

Requirements:

Must have a valid CA driver’s license and be able to drive County or personal vehicles to Vote Centers to conduct daily check-ins and ensure voting equipment is functioning properly
Must be able to lift up to 50 lbs
Duties May Include:
Testing and verifying functionality of electronic voting equipment prior to, during, and after voting periods
Assisting in preparing and staging heavy equipment and supplies for delivery to Vote Centers
Inventorying and organizing voting equipment and Vote Center supplies
Assisting in delivery, connection, testing, and pickup of voting equipment at Vote Centers including delivery of spare equipment and supplies
Providing on-site troubleshooting and technical support for voting equipment
Fluency in Spanish, Mandarin and/or Cantonese, Tagalog/Filipino, Korean, Burmese, Hindi, Japanese, Indonesian, Vietnamese, or Thai is desired in Outreach Services but not required.
   
The Election Worker – Office Assistant is classified as an Office Assistant I (Extra Help). The starting hourly wage for this position starts at $24.91. Overtime is expected for most positions. This is an extra-help, at-will assignment, paid on an hourly basis. Extra-help hours are dependent on the business needs of the department and therefore work hours may vary from week to week. Extra-help employees shall not exceed 1,040 hours of work per fiscal year. Some extra help positions are eligible for benefits under the Affordable Care Act. Extra-help employees are not guaranteed permanent status at the end of the assignment.

Ideal Voter Registration/Clerical Support candidates will have a minimum of one year of general clerical, office assistant, phone services, or computer experience.  

Critical skills for all Election Worker Office Assistant positions include the ability to prioritize work, coordinate several activities, organize and maintain accurate files and records, and understand and carry out oral and written directions.

Office hours are 8:00 am to 5:00 pm, Monday through Friday. Most positions require working overtime, including long hours, weekends, evenings, and holidays. Any authorized time worked more than 40 hours in the workweek shall be considered overtime and shall be compensable at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) times the overtime worked. The selected individuals must be available for the entire employment period until the completion of their assignment.
 
The last anticipated day of employment will be ten days after Election Day, which is November 13, 2026. Visit smcvote.gov or follow us on X @smcvote for updates on election schedules.

This is an extra-help recruitment. Anyone may apply. Computer access is available for free at any San Mateo County Library. 
  
PLEASE DO NOT CALL THE ELECTIONS DIVISION OR THE HUMAN RESOURCES DEPARTMENT. The Elections Division will contact you by phone or email if your qualifications meet the current needs.

Because these are full-time (temporary) positions, candidates whose applications indicate they are currently employed in a full-time capacity will not be contacted. However, if you are currently employed and would like to be considered, please indicate how you could meet the required work schedule given your current employment in the supplemental questionnaire.
 
IMPORTANT: Applications for this position will only be accepted online. If you are currently on the County's website, you may click the “Apply” button. If you are not on the County's website, please go to https://jobs.smcgov.org/ to apply. Responses to the Supplemental Questionnaire must be submitted in addition to the standard County employment application form. A resume will not be accepted as a substitute for the required application materials. Online applications must be received by the Human Resources Department before midnight on the final filing date.


This is a continuous recruitment which may close at any time. The final filing date will be posted five days in advance on this job announcement.




Apply immediately. This recruitment is open on a continuous basis and selections may be made at any time within the process.

 
Notice to Applicants:
Please note that this recruitment includes one-day hiring events conducted via Zoom, featuring on-the-spot interviews. To participate, you must submit your application as instructed above. If your application passes the initial screening, a recruiter will provide you with the option to register for one of the hiring events listed below. If you pass the departmental interview, you will be responsible for bringing a valid photo ID, social security card, and completed Live Scan form to the office and then visiting an approved Live Scan location.

One Day Hiring Events

August 11, 2026 from 9 AM to Noon

August 25, 2026 from 9 AM to Noon

September 8, 2026 from 9 AM to Noon

September 29, 2026 from 4 PM to 7 PM

We invite you to explore our Benefits-at-a-Glance (Download PDF reader) page for a snapshot of the comprehensive and competitive benefits available to eligible employees of the County of San Mateo. From health and wellness to financial security, our benefits are designed to support you at every stage of your career. (Please note that benefits are subject to change.)In addition to core benefits, the County is proud to offer a variety of wellness and professional development programs to help you grow both personally and professionally. Most of these enriching opportunities are available during work hours and come at no cost to you.As a County employee, you’ll also be covered by the federal Social Security system, earning valuable retirement benefits based on your salary and years of service.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Please select the position(s) is which you are interested in applying:
        
        
                Ballot Retrieval
                Vote by Mail
                Voter Registration/Clerical Support
                Voter Helpdesk Support
                Supplies
                Field Techs/Warehouse
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        If you currently work a full-time job, please explain how you will be available to work in this position. 

(If you are not currently working a full-time job, please answer with "n/a".)
        
        
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        How did you learn about this position?
        
        
                County of San Mateo Website
                County of San Mateo Job Interest Card Notification
                County Hosted Virtual Event
                County Hosted Job Fair
                CalOpps.org
                College/University Career Center
                Community-based Organization Posting
                Facebook/Instagram
                Friend or Relative
                GovernmentJobs.com
                Indeed
                Job Fair
                LinkedIn
                Professional Publication/Website (Please specify in next question)
                X (formerly called Twitter)
                Zip Recruiter
                Other (Please specify in next question)
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        If you answered, "Professional Publication/Website" or "Other" to the above question, please indicate below how you learned about this position. Your response to this question will help us in better marketing County jobs. Type NA if not applicable.
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        

County of San Mateo Human Resources Department
500 County Center, 4th Floor
Redwood City, California, 94063-1663