=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Election Specialist
Salary: $27.14 - $45.35 HOUR
Location: 2122 Building - Olmsted County Campus, MN, MN, 55904-3710
Employer: Olmsted County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2026-03-11
Job Type: Regular Full-Time
Department: Property Records & Licensing
Opening Date: 03/12/2026
Closing Date: 3/25/2026 11:59 PM Central
FLSA: Non-Exempt
Hours of Work: 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday
Union: Employee's Association

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Recognized as one of the best places to work in Southeast Minnesota for three consecutive years, at Olmsted County every role helps to foster a vibrant community where everyone thrives. Our employees are at the heart of everything we do, driving public service excellence and community well-being.

We don’t just offer a job, we offer a career filled with purpose, growth, and fulfillment. Our benefits package ensures your wellbeing, while career advancement opportunities and professional development empower you to reach your full potential.

Join us, and you'll be part of a purpose-driven team where your work truly makes a difference. Together, we build a sustainable, healthy, and welcoming community.

Expected starting salary is $27.14 to $36.25.  Full salary is $27.14 to $45.35

Associate’s degree from an accredited college or university in business, administrative assistant or related field and one (1) year of experience in a similar position as listed in the work functions.

OR

Combination of education and experience equivalent to three (3) years of experience in a similar position as listed in the work functions.

Regular and reliable attendance is a necessary component of job/position.  Individuals required to use County vehicles and equipment must have a valid driver’s license and be free of any major traffic violations for the last three (3) years.

Required Special Qualifications:

Must complete Election Administrator certification and all additional training required by the Office of the Secretary of State.

Under supervision, answers questions and processes applications. Assists with the training and mentoring of staff and volunteers. Serves as the subject matter expert for elections. Provides customer service to the public, vendors, Olmsted County departments, partner agencies and the media. Greets, assists, and directs customers and performs administrative support duties. Assists with oversight of provisional election staff in the absence of the manager. Supports a diverse, respectful, and inclusive workplace.

Administers the absentee voting process including ballot requirements, mailing requirements, early voting and database updates. Coordinates health care facility voting. 
Performs complex administrative support tasks including preparing, editing, and proofreading reports, documentation, training materials, and correspondence. 
Trains and mentors staff, volunteers, and partner agencies. 
Maintains and updates election and voter registration systems, resolves issues, and verifies for accuracy. 
Processes applications and registrations which may include the Statewide Voter Registration System, real estate document recordings, certificates of real estate value, collection and balancing of recording fees collected, abstracting services, and tax collection.
Coordinates the maintenance and testing of equipment.
Enters redistricting updates using GIS mapping. Updates election district, precinct boundaries, and address changes. 
Assists in interpretation of state statutes and recommends changes to policies.
Tracks inventory and orders supplies.
Provides backup support for other functions in the department.
Performs related work as required.

Knowledge of policies, regulations, statutes, procedures, and practices pertaining to elections.
Knowledge of legal documents, terminology, legal descriptions, and notarization procedures.
Knowledge of data privacy policies, regulations, statutes, and practices.
Knowledge of basic office procedures and equipment.
Skill in the use of computers and technology.
Skill in the use of basic business math.
Ability to perform administrative support tasks.
Ability to maintain the confidentiality of information.
Ability to organize and prioritize daily work tasks while experiencing multiple interruptions.
Ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships with others.
Ability to follow written and verbal instructions.
Ability to communicate effectively both verbally and in writing.
Ability to adapt to changes in tasks and responsibilities.
Ability to work independently as well as within a team.
Ability to remain politically neutral.
Ability to train and mentor others.
Ability to resolve problems.

Persons with disabilities: the above is a general listing of job duties. Essential and non-essential functions may vary by individual position. Reasonable accommodations may be available for both essential and non-essential job duties.

 Physical Demands and Work Environment: In compliance with Americans with Disabilities Act, the following represents the Physical and Environmental Demands:

Function:

	

24% or Less

	

25% - 49%

	

50%-74%

	

75% or more




Office environment

	
	
	
	

X




In Vehicle

	

X

	
	
	



Sitting

	
	
	
	

X




Standing, walking, reaching

	
	
	

X

	



Crouching

	

X

	
	
	



Pulling, climbing, kneeling, stooping, balancing, crawling

	

X

	
	
	



Pushing up to 75 pounds

	

X

	
	
	



Lifting up to 45 pounds

	
	

X

	
	



Repetitive hand movements, typing/data entry

	
	
	
	

X




Talking, hearing

	
	
	
	

X




Close and distance vision

	
	
	
	

X




Color vision, Accommodation

	
	

X

	
	



Depth perception, field of vision

	

X

	
	
	



Medium effort (exert up to 50 pounds of force)

	
	
	

X

	

An Equal Opportunity Employer

Additional Considerations

This is a Rochester, MN based position and is not remote eligible at this time.
International relocation or international remote working arrangements (outside of the US) will not be considered.
Applicants for this position must be currently authorized to work in the United States.
Olmsted County does not sponsor applicants for this position.

Provisional employees are eligible for benefits if employment is projected to be 12 months or longer and work at least 40 hours per pay period.This document is a brief Summary of Benefits for Olmsted County Employees on the Paid Time Off Program.Paid Time OffEmployees over .5 FTE accrue Paid Time Off (PTO) based on their length of service as follows:First year to 5 years of service - accrue up to 23 days6 to 10 years of service - accrue up to 25 days11 to 15 years of service - accrue up to 27.5 days16 to 20 years of service - accrue up to 30 days21 to 26 years of service - accrue up to 32.5 daysOver 26 years of service - accrue up to 35 daysEmployees begin accruing PTO on their first day of work and can use it as soon as accrued with supervisor approval.Flexible Time LeaveAll regular, full-time employees and part-time employees who are scheduled to work at least twenty (20) hours or more per week on an ongoing basis shall receive up to 24 hours (prorated by FTE) of paid FTL at their regular base pay each calendar year.Commencement of Employment                     # of FTL HoursBetween January 1 and June 30                    24 HoursBetween July 1 and August 31                       16 HoursBetween September 1 and November 30       8 HoursBetween December 1 and December 31        0 HoursPaid HolidaysOlmsted County recognizes the following legal holidays:New Year's Day, Martin Luther King Jr. Day, President's Day, Memorial Day, Juneteenth, Independence Day, Labor Day, Veteran's Day, Thanksgiving Day, Day after Thanksgiving, Christmas Eve (4 hours when December 24th falls on a Monday – Thursday only), Christmas DayEmployee Health and Insurance BenefitsHealth, Dental, Vision, Basic Life, Health Care Spending Account and Dependent Care Spending Account benefits become effective the first of the month following 30 days of employment.Health InsuranceThe self-insured Olmsted County Employees’ Health Plan is administered by Medica. Under the plan, eligible employees and their dependents have access to all providers in the Medica Health Plan Solutions network,including Mayo Clinic and Olmsted Medical Center.The plan offers a comprehensive preventive care program to help protect the health of employees and their dependents, 80% co-insurance on most services (after deductible) and access to Nice Healthcare, which offers no-cost virtual and in-home appointments, labs, x-rays, and more.There is a base in-network deductible of $1,500/person, $4,500/family with the opportunity to earn a reward to lower the deductible to $500/person, $1,500/family. The in-network out-of-pocket maximum is $3,000/person, $6,000/family for those who earn the reward.Coverage is available for employees and their eligible dependents.The monthly rates for healthcare coverage are as follows:Health Insurance RatesSingle health coverage monthly cost to the employee is $110.00 per month or $55.00 per pay period. Employee Plus Children monthly cost to the employee is $500 per month or $250 per pay period. Employee Plus One coverage monthly cost to the employee is $546.00 per month or $273.00 per pay period. Family coverage monthly cost to the employee is $690.00 per month or $345 per pay period.Nice HealthcareNice Healthcare is an additional healthcare option for employees on our health plan. The plan includes virtual and in-home care, primary care, convenient medication delivery, lab work and diagnostics, and comprehensive family care. There is no premium to the employee. Coverage is available for employees enrolled in the health plan and their eligible dependents (even if not enrolled in the health plan).Prescription Drug PlanThe Olmsted County Employees’ Health Plan prescription drug benefit is part of the health plan and is administered by Alluma. Covered prescriptions are based on the Alluma Advantage Formulary. The plan contractswith Express Scripts to provide a national network. This allows members to receive prescriptions conveniently at home, or across the country, for the same co-insurance amount. Prescription co-insurance is 25% or 40%depending on whether the prescription is formulary or non-formulary, with the opportunity to lower co-insurance through mail order. Prescriptions are subject to minimum and maximum charges. Both retail and mail orderprescriptions apply toward an annual $2,400/person or $4,800/family out of pocket limit.Dental InsuranceThe Olmsted County Dental Plan is self-insured and administered by Delta Dental. Coverage includes Diagnostic & Preventive Services – 100%; Basic Services - 80%; Major Restorative Services - 50%; and Orthodontics - 50%. Lifetime maximum for Orthodontics is $1,500 per eligible dependent child. Diagnostic and Preventive Services do not apply to the yearly individual maximum benefit of $1,500. There is a $50 deductible per family member per year, with a maximum of $150 per family. The deductible does not apply for Diagnostic and Preventive Services.Coverage is available for employees and their eligible dependents.Single dental coverage monthly cost to the employee is $14.00 per month.  Employee Plus One coverage monthly cost to the employee is $25.00 per month or $12.50 per pay period.  Family coverage monthly cost to the employee is $56.00 per month or $28.00 per pay period.Life InsuranceThe County paid Basic Life Plan is group term guaranteed issue life insurance up to two times employee’s annual salary rounded to the nearest $1,000 to a maximum of $300,000. Olmsted County pays 100 percent of enrolled dependent coverage costs for the following life benefits:                                                   Spouse: $2,000Children up to age 26: $1,250Vision InsuranceOlmsted County offers insurance for vision correction materials through EyeMed. Benefits include discounts on frames, lenses, and contacts. Coverage is available for employees and their eligible dependents.Voluntary Life InsuranceThe cost of employee and spouse Voluntary Life Insurance coverage is determined by age and the amount of coverage. This coverage would be in addition to what employees receive under the Basic Life Plan.New employees who enroll within 30 days of eligibility may select up to $250,000 in life insurance coverage and up to $50,000 for their spouse without answering any health questions. Employees may apply for additional life insurance in $5,000 increments up to a maximum of $500,000. Spouses may apply for additional life insurance in $5,000 increments up to a maximum of $250,000.New employees can also elect child life insurance without having to answer any health questions. The cost of life insurance is $1.30 per month, regardless of the number of children covered. The coverage amount is $10,000 per child.PERA Life InsuranceEmployees can purchase guaranteed issue group term life insurance coverage through the Voluntary Group Life Plan with the National Conference on Public Employees Retirement Systems (NCPERS) in which Olmsted County is a participant. It is underwritten by The Prudential Insurance Company of America and administered by MemberBenefits.Cost is $16.00 per month with no medical questions asked.Minnesota Paid LeaveThe County participates in the Minnesota Paid Family Leave program. This provides partial income replacement to employees needing time off for covered conditions, including serious health conditions, bonding, or to care for a family member.Long Term Disability InsuranceThe County provides 40 percent pay replacement coverage at no cost to the employee. Employees have the option to purchase an additional 26 2/3 percent pay replacement coverage for a total of 66 2/3 percent. Long-term disability benefits are effective on the first of the month following 30 days of service. The plan has a 90-day elimination period before benefits may be payable.Employee Assistance ProgramAllOne Health, Olmsted County’s Employee Assistance Program (EAP), is a confidential service to help employees and their families address work and life issues. Online and telephone resources are available 24/7/365. Flexible Spending Accounts Employees have the option of using one or both flexible spending accounts provided through Olmsted County to pay for out-of-pocket health care expenses and day care expenses with pretax dollars.Health Care Spending Account limit is $3,400.Dependent Care Spending Account limit is $7,500.Blood Assurance ProgramA Volunteer Blood Donor Program through Mayo Clinic Blood Bank is available to employees. It covers the employee and family for all red blood cell products.Workers CompensationAll employees are covered by Workers Compensation insurance while performing County business.RetirementOlmsted County and employees pay into the Public Employees Retirement Association (PERA) as follows:General Plan: Employee Share is 6.50%, County Share is 7.50%Police & Fire Plan: Employee Share is 11.80%, County Share is 17.70%   Correctional Plan: Employee Share is 6.83%, County Share is 10.25%General Plan members pay into both PERA and Social Security. Deferred Compensation PlansOlmsted County employees may choose to participate in Deferred Compensation Plans (457 Plans) offered through: VOYA Financial, Nationwide Retirement Solutions, and Minnesota Deferred Compensation Plan.Years of Service AwardsOlmsted County recognizes employees for milestones in their years of service (5, 10, 15, 20, 25 and above).Direct DepositAll employees are paid bi-weekly. Employees’ paychecks are electronically deposited directly into employees’ bank accounts, avoiding situations like late checks or inconvenient trips to the bank.United Way DonationIf an employee requests, the County will deduct contributions to United Way through payroll deduction.Staff Development ProgramThe Staff Development Program offers courses online and in the classroom. The purpose is to train and retain employees through educational opportunities.Tuition ReimbursementOlmsted County offers tuition reimbursement for college courses of 80% or $3,000 (whichever is less) per year with prior approval from supervisor and Human Resources for job-related courses.Olmsted County has partnered with Saint Mary's University to offer unique career advancement, degree completion, and professional development opportunities at a discounted rate. To learn more about the partner scholarship and Saint Mary's bachelor's completion, master's, doctoral, or graduate certificate programs visit the Olmsted County partner page. As a Local Government, Olmsted County is a qualified employer for the Public Service Loan Forgiveness Act. Go to StudentAid.Gov to learn more about this program and see if you qualify.Savi Loan ForgivenessOlmsted County has partnered with Savi, a trusted financial wellness resource to support your student loan journey. Savi has three different support plans - DIY, Essential, and Pro. As an Olmsted County employee, you can receive Savi Essential (typically $70) for free or Savi Pro for $80 (typically $150).  Credit UnionEmployees are invited to join the First Alliance Credit Union. For more information, call the Credit Union at (507) 288-0330 or (800) 866-1999.Parking/Transit PlanParking for Government Center employees is available employee parking lots. The County supports public transportation. Employees who ride the bus to and from work and during work hours are offered subsidized bus passes.Jury DutyEmployees required to report for jury duty or attend a trial in response to a subpoena will do so without loss of income. Employees will receive their regular pay during their court service.