=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: DEPUTY DIRECTOR REGISTRATION &amp; ELECTIONS, Grade 27
Salary: $80,188.00 - $120,282.00 YEAR
Location: VARIOUS LOCATIONS IN FULTON COUNTY, GA, GA, 30303
Employer: Fulton County
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2021-03-16
Job Type: FULL-TIME
Department: REGISTRATION AND ELECTIONS
Opening Date: 03/17/2021
Closing Date: 4/21/2021 11:59 PM Eastern

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

*UNCLASSIFIED POSITION LOCATED IN THE OFFICE OF REGISTRATION AND ELECTIONS*

Minimum Qualifications:

Bachelor's Degree in public administration, political science, organizational development, or a related field required; supplemented by five (5)  years of progressively responsible management experience in government administration, business administration, or a legal field involving the interpretation of governmental laws, rules, and statutes, and three (3) years of experience in voter registration and elections activities; or any equivalent combination of education, training, and experience which provides the requisite knowledge, skills, and abilities for this job.

Specific License or Certification Required: Must possess and maintain a valid Georgia driver’s license.

 

Specific Knowledge, Skills, or Abilities: Must be able to demonstrate proficiency in performance of the essential functions and learn, comprehend, and apply all county or departmental policies, practices, and procedures necessary to function effectively in the position.

EXAMINATION:
The examination will consist of an evaluation of education and experience, accomplished by analysis of the application. Application must document that the applicant possesses the minimum knowledge, skills, education and experience as listed to be rated as qualified. If selected, an official, accredited college transcript is required, at time of employment, for all degrees/course work used to qualify for this position.

All applications must be completed in full before they are submitted. Please review all applications for accuracy and make all corrections before submittal because errors can result in not meeting the minimum qualifications. Additional information will not be accepted after applications are received by the Department of Human Resources Management. 

Purpose of Classification:

The purpose of this classification is to aid the director in supervison and management of divisions within the department.  Oversee absentee by mail division.  Determine best practices based upon Georgia Election Codes and Fulton County policies and procedures.

Essential Functions: 

The following duties are normal for this position. The omission of specific statements of the duties does not exclude them from the classification if the work is similar, related, or a logical assignment for this classification. Other duties may be required and assigned.

Aides the Director in supervising, directing, and evaluating assigned staff: makes hiring or termination decisions/recommendations; establishes workloads and prioritizes work assignments; approves/processes employee concerns and problems and counsels or disciplines as appropriate; approves leave/vacation requests; completes employee performance appraisals; develops, interprets, trains staff in, and enforces operations, policies, and procedures.

Tracks each election cycle as a project; determines best practices to track each task and staff during an election project in order to keep the Director abreast of developments and/or potential delays that could impact operations. Assists the Elections Director with projecting, managing and maintaining adequate and accurate election and grant budgets and expenditures.

Oversees and manages registration, absentee, elections and administrative functions of the department; provides oversight of logistical operations of elections to include equipment deployment, warehouse operations, early voting activities and poll worker training and assignment; oversees and monitors the development and maintenance of the department’s annual project plan; ensures standard operating procedures are routinely reviewed, updated and maintained; participate in the development and maintenance of the department’s contingency plans for operations; implement and manage the department’s cross training program and production of position desk procedures.  

In the absence of the Director, will represent the department to media, voters, other departments, municipalities and other stakeholders: represents department at Board of Commissioners meetings; serves as liaison with Secretary of State's office with regard to elections and voter registration; serves as Supervisor of Elections and Chief Administrative Officer for the Fulton County Board of Registration and Elections, including ensuring implementation of Board policies, scheduling meetings, and preparing/approving agendas and minutes; and communicates with these and other individuals/entities as needed to coordinate work activities, review status of work, exchange information, or resolve problems.

Prepares or completes various forms, reports, correspondence, and other documentation, including performance appraisals, memos for new positions, budget proposals, news releases, and PowerPoint presentations; compiles data for further processing or for use in preparation of department reports; and maintains computerized and/or hardcopy records.

Maintains a current, comprehensive knowledge and awareness of applicable laws, regulations, principles and practices relating to registration and elections processes; maintains an awareness of new trends and advances in the profession; reads professional literature; maintains professional affiliations; and attends workshops and training sessions. Collaborate with director to respond to Board of Registration & Elections, Board of Commissioners and the media.

 

Additional Functions:

Performs other related duties as required.

Performance Aptitudes:

Data Utilization: Requires the ability to review, classify, categorize, prioritize, and/or analyze data.   Includes exercising discretion in determining data classification, and in referencing such analysis to established standards for the purpose of recognizing actual or probable interactive effects and relationships.  

Human Interaction: Requires the ability to provide guidance, assistance, and/or interpretation to others regarding the application of procedures and standards to specific situations.

Equipment, Machinery, Tools, and Materials Utilization: Requires the ability to operate, maneuver, and/or control the actions of equipment, machinery, tools and/or materials requiring complex and/or rapid adjustments.

Verbal Aptitude: Requires the ability to utilize a wide variety of reference and descriptive data and information.

Mathematical Aptitude: Requires the ability to perform addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division; the ability to calculate decimals and percentages; the ability to utilize principles of fractions; and the ability to interpret graphs.

Functional Reasoning: Requires the ability to apply principles of rational systems; to interpret instructions furnished in written, oral, diagrammatic, or schedule form; and to exercise independent judgment to adopt or modify methods and standards to meet variations in assigned objectives.

Situational Reasoning: Requires the ability to exercise judgment, decisiveness and creativity in situations involving evaluation of information against measurable or verifiable criteria.

Other Requirements:

Physical Ability: Tasks require the ability to exert light physical effort in sedentary to light work, but which may involve some lifting, carrying, pushing and/or pulling of objects and materials of light weight (5-10 pounds). Tasks may involve extended periods of time at a keyboard or work station.

Sensory Requirements: Some tasks require the ability to perceive and discriminate colors or shades of colors, sounds, and visual cues or signals.  Some tasks require the ability to communicate orally.

Environmental Factors: Essential functions are regularly performed without exposure to adverse environmental conditions.

It is the policy of Fulton County that there will be equal opportunity for every citizen, employee and applicant, based upon merit without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, gender, age, disability, genetics or sexual orientation. 


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        The answers you provide to the supplemental questions will be used to determine if you meet the minimum qualifications for this position.  Your responses pertaining to specific work experience and education must be clearly shown in the areas for work history and education on your application.  Your application must be completed in full before it is submitted. Please review all applications for accuracy and make all corrections before submittal because errors can result in not meeting the minimum qualifications.
We do not accept additional information after your application has been received by the Department of Human Resources Management.

Do you accept these conditions?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        What is your highest level of education completed?
        
        
                High School Diploma or GED Equivalent
                Some College
                Associate Degree
                Bachelor Degree
                Master Degree
                Doctoral Degree
                None of the Above
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        In what field of study related to this position do you possess an Associate Degree, Bachelor Degree, Master Degree, Doctoral Degree or have earned college credits?
        
        
                Public Administration
                Business Administration
                Organizational Development
                Political Science
                None of the above
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        If you have received some college credits related to this position, but did not receive your degree, how many college credits did you earn?
        
        
                0 - 29  Semester Hours
                30 - 59 Semester Hours
                60 - 89 Semester Hours
                90 -119 Semester Hours
                0 - 44 Quarter Hours
                45 - 89 Quarter Hours
                90 - 134 Quarter Hours
                135 - 179 Quarter Hours
                Does not Apply
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Please select the option that best describes your experience in governmental or business administration.
        
        
                0 to 5 months
                6 months less than 1 year
                1 year less than 2 years
                2 years less than 3 years
                3 years less than 4 years
                4 years less than 5 years
                5 years less than 6 years
                6 years less than 7 years
                7 years less than 8 years
                8 years less than 9 years
                9 years or more
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Please describe your experience in governmental, or business administration.

If non applicable, please respond with n/a.
        
        
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Please select the option that best describes your experience in voter registration and elections activities.
        
        
                0 to 5 months
                6 months less than 1 year
                1 year less than 2 years
                2 years less than 3 years
                3 years or more
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Please describe your experience in voter registration and elections activities.

If non applicable, please respond with n/a.
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        