=== JOB DETAILS ===

Salary: $4,109.00 - $5,385.00 Monthly
Location: Thurston County – Olympia, WA
Job Type: Full Time - Permanent
Job Number: 17 EL 0633
Department: Office of the Secretary of State
Division: Elections
Opening Date: 06/05/2017
Closing Date: Continuous

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===



Headed by an elected state official, the Office of the Secretary of State is responsible for administering elections within the state, registering corporations and charities that do business within the state, collecting and preserving the records of governmental bodies within the state, and maintaining the Washington State Library. The office also administers the Address Confidentiality Program, the Legacy Program and the Combined Fund Drive. Visit our website at: www.sos.wa.gov.

This position is the Election Review Program lead within the Election Certification and Training program. The Election Certification and Training program oversees, directs, and advises county auditors in interpretations of federal and state election law and the correct administration of voter registration and elections throughout the state. The certification and training program reviews county practices for adherence to election law and best practices, provides essential tools for election administrators through official communications and training, and acts as liaisons for the Office of the Secretary of State.

This position reports to the certification and training program manager and is responsible for overseeing, reviewing and advising county auditors on the federal and state elections laws and the administration of voter registration.

This recruitment is open continuous with the initial review of applicants beginning on May 11, 2017. The hiring authority reserves the right to make a hiring decision at any time following the initial review of applications on May 11, 2017.


Serves as the lead program specialist in the county election review program; travels extensively throughout the state to conduct reviews of county elections departments

Determines county review schedules and tracks review histories
Establishes and maintains internal and external documents used in election procedures
Evaluates efficiency and effectiveness of review process
Monitors progress and completion of the year's reviews
Manages the program's document retention
Visits counties multiple times to observe the election practices
Reviews all written election materials prepared by the counties
Reviews all written and observed procedures for compliance with state and federal election law
Reviews all written and observed procedures for improvements based on best practices
Makes recommendations to the county to conform to state and federal election law and conform to best practices; and
Prepares a publicly available review report on the findings of the review
Participates in the candidate filing and initiative and referendum filing programs
Maintains current initiatives and initiative filing process online
Processes initiative and referendum filings
Maintains the names of incumbents and the terms of all legislative, superior court, court of appeals, supreme court, federal, and statewide offices in the WEI
Tracks vacancies that need to be filled in conjunction with the courts and governor's office in order to produce a list of statewide vacancies
Maintains the list of current filing fees
Serves as a liaison with candidates and political parties in the process for filing for the office, including the receipt of declarations of candidacy, minor party and independent candidate nominating petitions, and filing fee petitions
Reviews all candidate applications: ensures applications are complete; rejects applications that are incomplete; determines disqualified applications; files legal declarations
Establishes the proper order of candidates on the voting ballots
Reviews and verifies county documentation for election results, combines results from counties and determines final results, prepares certification documentation, and arranges for signing by the Secretary of State and Governor
Participates in the elections training program and clearinghouse advisories program
Plans and develops curriculum
Assists with logistical arrangements for facilities and accommodations
Arranges for guest speakers
Makes presentations at training opportunities for Secretary of State staff, county election administrators, political party observers, and county canvassing board
Assists in planning the Annual Election Conference -developing agenda, selection of speakers, vendor coordination, and logistical arrangement
Makes logistical arrangements for facilities and accommodations
Conducts elections 101 orientation training
Assists the voter education and outreach program
Develops and publishes a variety of advisories and forms for use by elections professionals such as county auditors, county election administrators, the Public Disclosure Commission, candidates, political party representatives, the press, and the public
Participates in the election administration certification program
Independently reviews initial and renewal applications to determine whether the training qualifies for credit towards required certification
Administers certification tests
Issues certificate to qualified participants
Provide support to Washington State counties on election processes, county WEI systems, and logic and accuracy test program
Conducts logic and accuracy tests at county election offices: reviews test patterns for acceptance within allowable standards; presides over test to ensure accuracy and test uploads for results; creates remediation plan for failures
Researches and accurately responds to county questions
Miscellaneous
Staffs the Election Administration and Certification Board comprised of county auditors, the Secretary of State, and state legislators
Advises and supports county auditors and county election administrators
Ensures the assigned areas of the Elections website are accurate, functioning and up-to-date
Assists in development of WACs and RCWs
Acts as back-up to other Elections Division programs
Other duties as assigned


Required Qualifications:

Four years of experience providing support to staff or a program including, but not limited to, interpreting policy and instructing others on application of policies, representing a program or office to clients, composing correspondence, scheduling appointments and meetings, working cooperatively with political party representatives, elected officials, election administrators, and the press and public in sensitive situations.
Ability to efficiently use a personal computer and applicable software to successfully perform the essential functions of the position.
Current Washington state driver's license or have requested and obtained an appropriate accommodation.
Preferred/Desired Qualifications:
Bachelor's degree and two years of experience interpreting policy and instructing others on application of policies, representing a program or office to clients, composing correspondence, scheduling appointments and meetings, working cooperatively with political party representatives, elected officials, election administrators, and the press and public in sensitive situations.
Certified Election Administrator in Washington State.
Experience preparing and delivering presentations to small and large groups.
Special Requirements/Conditions of Employment
Certification as an Elections Administrator within two years of employment
This position is covered by a union shop provision. As a condition of employment, the incumbent will be required to become a member of the Washington Federation of State Employees (WFSE).


HOW TO APPLY

To be considered for this position you must attach a resume and a letter of interest describing how your experience and qualifications relate to the position description and the required and preferred/desired qualifications.
You must complete the supplemental questions at the end of this application.  Incomplete responses such as "see resume" will not be considered.  In addition, if the employer you identify in the additional information section is not included on your resume or work experience profile, you will not receive credit.
All veterans must include a copy of your DD214 to receive preference in the hiring process.  You must redact your social security number before attaching it to your application.
The Office of the Secretary of State is an equal opportunity employer (EOE). We do not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, creed, sex, sexual orientation, disability, familial status, marital status, and age. All interested candidates are encouraged to apply. Persons of disability needing assistance in the application process, or those needing this announcement in alternative format, should call (360) 704-5210.

More than Just a Paycheck! Employee benefits are not just about the kind of services you get, they are also about how much you may have to pay out of pocket. Washington State offers one of the most competitive benefits packages in the nation.We understand that your life revolves around more than just your career and that your priority is making sure that you and your family will maintain health and financial security. That's why choice is a key component of our benefits package. We have a selection of health and retirement plans, paid leave, staff training and other compensation benefits that you can mix and match to meet your current and future needs. Read about our benefits: The following information describes typical benefits available for full-time employees who are expected to work more than six months. Actual benefits may vary by appointment type or be prorated for other than full-time work. Check with the agency human resource office for specific benefit information.Insurance Benefits Employees and families are covered by medical (including vision), dental and basic life insurance.  There are multiple medical plans with affordable monthly premiums that offer coverage throughout the state.  Staff are eligible to enroll each year in a medical flexible spending account which enables them to use tax-deferred dollars toward their health care expenses.  Employees are also covered by basic life and long term disability insurance, with the option to purchase additional coverage amounts.  To view premium rates, coverage choice in your area and how to enroll, please visit the Public Employees Benefits Board (PEBB) website. Retirement and Deferred Compensation State Employees are members of the Washington Public Employees' Retirement System (PERS).  New employees have the option of two employer contributed retirement programs.  For additional information, check out the Department of Retirement Systems' web site. Employees also have the ability to participate in the Deferred Compensation Program (DCP).  This is a supplemental retirement savings program (similar to an IRA) that allows you control over the amount of pre-tax salary dollars you defer as well as the flexibility to choose between multiple investment options. Vacation (Annual Leave) You begin accruing vacation starting your first month of employment. Since we value your loyalty, the amount of vacation you can accrue increases the longer you work with us. Washington State supports members of the armed forces with 21 days paid military leave per year. Vacation accrues for full-time employees per WAC 357-31-165. Holidays Full-time employees are entitled to eleven* paid holidays: HOLIDAYDATE New Year's DayJanuary 1 Martin Luther King, Jr's birthdayThird Monday in January Presidents' DayThird Monday in February Memorial DayLast Monday in May Independence DayJuly 4 Labor DayFirst Monday in September Veterans' DayNovember 11 Thanksgiving DayFourth Thursday in November & Friday after Christmas DayDecember 25 Personal HolidayEmployee's selection each calendar year*Employees who are members of certain Unions are entitled to an additional personal leave day of their choice. Please refer to specific Collective Bargaining Agreements for more information. Social Security All state employees are covered by the federal Social Security and Medicare systems. The state and the employee pay an equal amount into the system. Sick Leave Full-time employees earn eight hours of sick leave per month. Paid sick leave may be used for reasons included in WAC 357-31-130. Please visit the State HR Website for more detailed information.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Where did you hear about this job opening?
        
        
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Do you have a family member or relative currently employed at the Office of the Secretary of State?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        If you answered 'yes' in the previous question, what is the name of your family member/relative? If you answered 'no' in the previous question, please put 'N/A.'
        
        
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Please select the tasks below that you have four (4), or more, years of experience performing in support of staff or a program.
        
        
                Interpreting policy and instructing others on application of policies
                Representing a program or office to clients
                Composing correspondence
                Scheduling appointments and meetings
                Working cooperatively with political party representatives, elected officials, election administrators, and the press and public in sensitive situations
                I do not have experience in any of the items listed, but I am willing and able to learn
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        If you selected any of the tasks above indicating that you have experience in elections administration or support of staff or a program, please describe the tasks performed to include employer and dates below. If you do not have this experience, please put 'N/A.'
        
        
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Do you have the ability to efficiently use a personal computer and applicable software to successfully perform the essential functions of the position?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Do you have a current Washington state driver's license or have you requested and obtained an appropriate accommodation?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Are you a certified Election Administrator in Washington state?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        Do you have experience working in an elections office?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        If you answered 'yes' in the previous question, please describe where you gained your experience and the tasks you performed. If you do not have this experience, please put 'N/A.'
        
        
        
    


    
        

11

    

    
        Do you have experience preparing and delivering presentations to groups?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

12

    

    
        If you answered 'yes' in the previous question, please describe where you gained your experience. If you do not have this experience, please put 'N/A.'
        
        
        
    


    
        

13

    

    
        During the election season and for projects, the work schedule for this position will require a variation from our regular office hours of 8:00 am to 5:00 pm. This includes working long days, which may include working before 8:00 am and/or after 5:00 pm and working weekends. The position also travels extensively to county locations. Can you meet these requirements?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

14

    

    
        Please describe, in detail, your experience creating content and developing curriculum for training publications in print and digital platforms for multiple audiences. If you do not have this experience, please put 'N/A.'
        
        
        
    


    
        

15

    

    
        Please describe a situation in which you displayed integrity, teamwork, and customer service when collaborating and/or coordinating with other sections, divisions, colleagues, or agencies to improve work flow and strengthen relationships. If you do not have an example of this type of situation, please put 'N/A.'
        
        
        
    


    
        

16

    

    
        Please describe any experience you have working with elected officials, candidates, and/or county election administrators. If you do not have this experience, please put 'N/A.'
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        