=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Assistant Elections Supervisor
Salary: $30.67 - $39.88 HOUR
Location: West Olive, MI, MI, 49460
Employer: Ottawa County
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2025-09-23
Job Type: Full-Time
Job Number: New FY2026
Department: County Clerk / Register of Deeds
Opening Date: 09/24/2025
Closing Date: 11/6/2025 11:01 AM Eastern
FLSA: Exempt
Bargaining Unit: Unclassified

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Under the direction of the Chief Deputy County Clerk and Elections Supervisor, serves as the coordinator of all early voting responsibilities in Ottawa County that the Clerk/Register is responsible for under the Michigan Constitution Article II § 4 1(m). Serves as lead support and back-up to the Elections Supervisor and provides general resource guidance for the election assistant and election intern positions. Ensures substantive and procedural compliance with all federal, state, and local statutes and regulations governing elections. Performs a variety of functions required to ensure fair, free, accurate and cost-effective elections. 

This is a full-time, benefited position working out of the Fillmore Complex in West Olive, MI. Typical working hours are Monday-Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.

The essential functions of this position include, but are not limited to, the following: 

Serves as lead support and back-up to the Elections Supervisor. Serves as a resource for staff members in the election division in processes, policies, and procedures. Trains staff, directs workflow, and responds to operational and procedural issues within the division. Helps develop procedural and training plans to progress skills that will assist staff that may be struggling.
Communicates with municipalities and prepares the Ottawa County early voting plans, applications and grants for all state and federal elections in accordance with the Michigan Constitution Article II § 4 1(m). Submits these plans to the Michigan Secretary of State Bureau of Elections Division for approval.   
Recruits all temporary election workers required to fulfill County election responsibilities, including troubleshooters for all nine days of Early Voting (subject to more days depending on local jurisdictions), troubleshooters for Election Day, ballot proofers, and recount workers. 
Helps develop, revise and update all election training materials for local election officials and precinct workers in accordance with State and Federal election law and helps conduct election worker certification training for Election Day and Early Voting alongside the Elections Supervisor.  
Assists with the programming of all election software to produce ballots for approximately 150 ballot styles across 110 precincts, and to accumulate all precincts into single canvassed statement of votes in a format that will upload to county website for Election Night results reporting, including the separation of Election Day, Absentee Voting and Early Voting totals.  
Assists and helps maintain all election equipment in Ottawa County. Leads the conduction of all public accuracy testing of voting equipment for all Early Voting sites and Election Day precincts in Ottawa County. Trains and supervises staff to provide emergency maintenance on election equipment before and during Early Voting and Election Days. 
Provides election support to applicable jurisdictions leading up to every election, early voting period and on Election Day. Assists in the coordination of scheduling, training and prepping all troubleshooters and runners. Distributes and tracks all GPS units, backup election devices, and election materials on Election Day. Manages Election Night result alerts to keep the public informed of updates. 
Ensures the accuracy of campaign finance filings, Freedom of Information Act requests, legal notices, data entry, correspondence, record retention, and election supply fulfillments processed by election assistants. Reviews legal documents submitted to the Elections Division for accuracy, completeness, and compliance with appropriate Michigan Election Law and Statutes. 
Assists in the arrangement of all public outreach programs and teachings, including the management and organization of the events. Events include school mock elections, voter registration events, and election town hall events.  
Serves as a member of the Clerk/Register’s Office Team Leads, participating in the strategic execution of the Clerk/Register’s Office mission, vision and values. This includes how to promote, maximize and foster the culture within the Clerk/Register team. Participates in the secondary interview process and provides input to hiring committee on potential candidates. 
Collaborates with the Elections Supervisor to improve election technology, recommend specific changes, and assist with the testing, implementation and training of staff with new technologies. 
Collaborates with the Election Supervisor to develop, implement, maintain and modify standardized operating procedures for election cycle procedures, records management, and other administrative functions. 
All other duties as assigned.

Bachelor’s degree or at least 3 years relevant experience in public administration, business administration, business information systems, political science, or other relevant field. At least two years of elections experience, including at least six months as a lead worker or supervisor, or an equivalent combination of education and experience. 

Required Knowledge and Skills: 

Thorough working knowledge of the Michigan Election Law (Act 116 of 1954, as amended). 
Good working knowledge of the Fannie Lou Hamer, Rosa Parks and Coretta Scott King Voting Rights Reauthorization and Amendments Act of 2006; the Help America Vote Act (Public Law 107-252); National Voter Registration Act of 1993; The Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act; the Military and Overseas Voting Act, Michigan Compiled Law Chapter 168, and the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1974. 
Good working knowledge of adult education and training principles and practices. 
Working knowledge of the principles and practices of supervision. 
Ability to engage in complex decision-making.
Good working knowledge of bookkeeping and accounting principles and practices. 
Thorough working knowledge of a variety of voting equipment and the ability to program operating software and troubleshoot software and hardware issues. 
Computer literacy and a thorough working knowledge of word processing, spreadsheet and database management applications. 
Good working knowledge of document imaging systems and protocols and practices. 
Good time management and organizational skills. 
Good verbal and written communications skills. 
Excellent interpersonal and human relations skills. 
Ability to interact positively and professionally with local unit clerks, facility directors, registered and prospective voters, prospective candidates for office, petition filers, voting machine vendors and helpdesk technicians, operating supply vendors, members of the Board of Canvassers, community and business representatives, and members of the general public with widely divergent socio-economic and cultural backgrounds and varying levels of communication skills.

Physical Requirements: 
Must have sufficient visual acuity, with or without corrective lenses, to visually inspect printed ballots for errors and verify readouts from optical scanners and tabulators. 
Must have sufficient manual dexterity to code test decks and operate keypads. 
Must have sufficient strength and dexterity to lift voting equipment weighing approximately 40 lbs. with or without mechanical or other assistance.

Working Conditions: 
Work is generally performed in a normal office environment.  Equipment, ballots and supplies are delivered to local jurisdictions and individual polling sites located throughout the county. Employee must provide their own transportation between sites. 

Disclaimer:

This job description is not designed to cover or contain a comprehensive listing of activities, duties or responsibilities that are required of the employee. Duties, responsibilities, and activities may change, or new ones may be assigned at any time with or without notice.




Ottawa County is an Equal Opportunity Employer




Ottawa County offers a wide range of benefits to support you in your career. View the Unclassified Benefits Summary for more information.The current Unclassified group manual can be viewed here.The Ottawa County Universal Wage Scale can be found here. **Part-time benefitted positions will recieve prorated benefits. 


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Please describe in detail your experience working in an environment that requires strong attention to detail and accuracy.
        
        
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Describe your leadership style.
        
        
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Describe your experience working as part of a team. What are some things you enjoy about working on a team and what are some challenges?
        
        
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        How do you keep yourself organized and focused when you have tight deadlines to adhere to?
        
        
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Describe yourself in three character traits. How would those character traits contribute to a team?
        
        
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        What do you do consistently to help customers feel truly seen and heard? What steps do you take to understand their needs and how do you make sure they have left the interaction feeling valued?
        
        
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Please describe your interest and experience in elections.
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        