=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Assistant Elections Manager
Salary: $49,596.04 - $87,277.06 YEAR
Location: Alexandria, VA, VA, 22314
Employer: City of Alexandria
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2021-03-22
Job Type: Full-Time
Job Number: 2021-00494
Department: Voter Registration & Elections
Opening Date: 03/23/2021
Closing Date: 4/6/2021 11:59 PM Eastern
Bargaining Unit: N/A

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===



Assistant Elections Manager
 
Overview
The City of Alexandria is looking for an Assistant Elections Manager to support election operations and election officer staffing within the City. The Assistant Elections Manager's primary responsibility is to manage elections officer recruitment, placement and training, and help coordinate election day preparation. Responsibilities also include assisting with the management of voting equipment, polling place activities, and the daily operations of absentee voting. The work is performed under the general direction of the Elections Manager.
 
 The Opportunity
Manages the staffing of election officers, including verifying their eligibility to serve, ensuring that all have signed oaths, arranging training, maintaining records and scheduling election officer assignments;
Maintains communications with election officers regarding department-wide information, including writing content for and distributing the election officer newsletter; 
Helps coordinate polling place activities, ensuring that all appropriate signage is posted, that each location has appropriate supplies and parking, and that all locations are accessible and appropriately staffed; 
Assists with the preparation of voting equipment prior to each election which includes programming equipment, testing equipment, ensuring the secure storage of equipment, and delivering equipment to/from polling places; 
Assists with the daily operations of absentee ballot processing, including verifying voter eligibility and assisting voters in casting absentee ballots; and
Performs other duties as required.

The Ideal Candidate
To qualify for this position, all candidates must be registered voters in Virginia; possess at least an Associate's degree; at least three (3) years of experience in customer service; or any equivalent combination of experience and training which provides the required knowledge, skills and abilities for the position.
 
To be considered as an ideal candidate, one must also possess a bachelor's degree and at least one (1) year of experience administering an election process or similar activity with complex laws, rules and regulations; experience managing time sensitive projects that require a high degree of accuracy; knowledge of voting technology, software and equipment; and the ability to communicate clearly and effectively, both verbally and in writing.
 
About the Department
The Office of Voter Registration and Elections is responsible for conducting accurate, fair and transparent elections in Alexandria in accordance with the Constitution and laws of the United States and the Commonwealth of Virginia, and providing Alexandria voters the opportunity to participate in the electoral process. This includes maintaining an accurate list of registered voters, offering convenient absentee voting opportunities, recruiting and training election officers, preparing ballots and voting equipment, managing polling places, and certifying all election results within the City. The office also verifies candidate nominating petitions and ensures that candidates for local office file on-time campaign finance reports and provide full disclosure of the campaign's financial activities to the public.


An Equal Employment Opportunity Employer

The City of Alexandria is an Equal Opportunity Employer and values diversity in its workforce. All qualified candidates will receive consideration without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, marital status, personal appearance, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, family responsibilities, matriculation, political affiliation, genetic information, military status, or disability. 

We are proud to welcome you to explore the City of Alexandria's excellent benefits and programs!Click here to learn more about Employee BenefitsClick here to learn more about the City's Employee Development ProgramThe benefits referenced on this site, may be changed from time to time without notice. Also, temporary and some part-time positions are not eligible for these benefits. For further information, please contact the Benefits Division of the Department of Human Resources at 703.746.3785 or email DHR.Benefits@alexandriava.gov .


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Do you possess the minimum qualifications for this position - which includes being a registered voter in Virginia; at least an Associate's degree; and at least three (3) years of experience in customer service, or any equivalent combination of experience and training which provides the required knowledge, skills and abilities for the position?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        If you are not a registered voter in Virginia, are you able to become a registered voter prior to accepting this position?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Do you have at least one (1) year of experience performing work related to voter registration and elections?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        If so, please briefly describe your experience. (If you answered no, please enter N/A.)
        
        
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Do you have experience managing time-sensitive projects that require a high degree of accuracy?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        If so, please briefly explain your experience. (If you answered no, please enter N/A.)
        
        
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Are you knowledgeable and familiar with voting technology, software, and equipment?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        If so, please briefly explain your familiarity and knowledge. (If you answered no, please enter N/A.)
        
        
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        This position requires the ability to work some evenings, occasional early mornings and weekends. Are you willing and able to meet this requirement?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        Please explain any additional skills you possess that would benefit the Alexandria Voter Registration & Elections Office? If none, indicate N/A.
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        