The incumbent of this position serves as the Senior Election Subject Matter Expert (SME) Accessibility of the U.S. Election Assistance Commission (EAC) which was established under the Help America Vote Act (HAVA) of 2002.
The incumbent of this position serves as the Senior Election Subject Matter Expert (SME) Accessibility of the U.S. Election Assistance Commission (EAC) which was established under the Help America Vote Act (HAVA) of 2002.
HAVA was enacted to establish a program to provide funds to States to replace punch card voting systems, to establish the Election Assistance Commission to assist States with the administration of Federal elections, to otherwise provide assistance with the administration of certain Federal election laws and programs, and to establish voluntary voting system guidelines and guidance for States and units of local government with responsibility for the administration of Federal elections. EAC serves as a National clearinghouse and resource for information with respect to the administration of Federal elections.
The Help America Vote Act of 2002 (HAVA), specifically requires states to make polling places accessible "in a manner that provides the same opportunity to people with disabilities for access and participation" as is provided to non-disabled voters. This includes accessible parking and paths of travel. Each polling place is also required to have at least one direct recording electronic voting system or voting system equipped for individuals with disabilities. HAVA also requires equal access for people with disabilities to registration by mail and a computerized statewide database, eliminating the need to re-register when people move (or re-register as a person with a disability) amongst other provisions.
Overview
The incumbent is responsible to create EAC Accessibility related Clearinghouse material to assist election officials, voters, and other stakeholders with best practices, white papers, tools, data, training materials, instructions, and any other information that would be helpful to election administrators to assist with the administration of elections. The incumbent will provide expert guidance on accessibility related to election administration that touches all facets of the agency to serve EAC stakeholders.
Major Duties
Under the overall direction of the Executive Director and the Senior Advisor the Election SME for Accessibility is responsible for accessibility duties:
Candidates must meet all qualifications prior to the closing date of this announcement.
Candidates must be a US Citizen.
This position is subject to a (1) year probationary period.
Bachelor's or higher degree in a related field is preferred.
You will be evaluated for this job based on how well you meet the qualifications above.
Please read the "Next steps" section for more information.
Required documents include a resume and the supporting documents as described in the "How to Apply Instructions" section of this announcement.
Education must be accredited by an accrediting institution recognized by the U.S. Department of Education in order for it to be credited towards qualifications. Therefore, provide only the attendance and/or degrees from schools accredited by accrediting institutions recognized by the U.S. Department of Education.
Failure to provide all of the required information as stated in this vacancy announcement may result in an ineligible rating or may affect the overall rating.
All applicants MUST submit applications via email: resumes@eac.gov. You do not need to submit your application package through the USAJOBS process.
You MUST include the job title and announcement number in the subject line of the email.
Your application package must be received by the closing date of the announcement and must include the following:
1. A resume;
2. Three professional references;
Your application materials will be reviewed and if an interview is deemed appropriate, you will be contacted with further information.
The Federal hiring process is set up to be fair and transparent. Please read the following guidance.