The incumbent will join the leadership team of the EAC, directed by the Executive Director. Commissioners identify the general direction of EAC programs.
The incumbent will join the leadership team of the EAC, directed by the Executive Director. Commissioners identify the general direction of EAC programs.
Applicants must be able to obtain a Secret Clearance.
The incumbent develops the Certification Division Strategic Plan outlining the goals and objective measurement criteria for the Division's success on an annual basis, at minimum. Most work is determined by EAC policy but there are areas where specific guidelines do not exist. In these cases, the incumbent develops work plans and receives approval of such plans from agency leadership. Work is largely independent with assignments being self-generated using experienced judgment. The incumbent initiates action to resolve most problems that arise. Contact with agency leadership is made as policy issues arise. Work is reviewed upon completion for consistency with policy and practices and for meeting objectives. When appropriate, the incumbent works through others, such as contractors, to develop work products.
Major Duties
Develops EAC policy, quality management system, and standard operating procedures for the
VST&C program and Division. Works with the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) National Voluntary Laboratory Accreditation Program (NVLAP), regarding laboratory accreditation for laboratories seeking accreditation to test voting systems under the EAC program. Under HAVA, NVLAP does the initial laboratory assessment and makes recommendation to the EAC, through the Director of NIST on the accreditation of candidate laboratories. Manages Division personnel (i.e., current FTE, technical reviewers and new hires).
Establishes, implements, and evaluates budget, working jointly with the EAC's leadership and Executive Director to establish priorities for the VST&C Division.
Manages voting system testing and certification efforts, including supervising contract staff, technical reviewers, and consultants. Oversees testing of voting systems developed by registered manufacturers to determine whether the systems provide required basic functionality, accessibility, and security capabilities.
Serves as EAC lead/co-lead on critical infrastructure issues.
Develops blogs, white papers and other informational material for stakeholders on election technology and cybersecurity.
Serves as EAC lead for development efforts on Voluntary Voting System Guidelines and development of requirements for testing at the laboratories.
Serves as the lead auditor on voting system test laboratory audits.
Leads the Election Official IT Training Program.
Represents the EAC and VST&C Program at stakeholder meetings and conferences.
Performs other duties as assigned.
Candidates must meet all qualifications prior to the closing date of this announcement.
Candidates must be a US Citizen.
This position is subject to a (1) year probationary period.
TECHNICAL COMPETENCIES
Ability to understand, interpret and utilize industry standards, and apply them to election technologies. General understanding of industry standards for cybersecurity, accessibility, and usability.
Thorough knowledge and understanding of the EAC mission, goals and objectives, programs, and functions to identify significant testing and certification issues. Related knowledge of Federal and State election laws and procedures.
Knowledge of information gathering and analysis techniques to gather, analyze, summarize, and report on voting system related data.
Ability to recommend and enhance technical policy relating to voting system standards.
Strong technical background in both systems and cyber security.
Ability to conduct and oversee complex studies or reviews.
Comprehensive knowledge of and skill in applying analytical methodologies and practices as it pertains to existing, new, and emerging voting systems.
Skill in legal and technical writing that addresses the complexities of the voting system testing and certification environment.
LEADERSHIP COMPETENCIES
Skill in leading staff to interact as a team, focused on cooperating with one another and with the entire EAC staff to accomplish team goals and initiatives. Ability to plan, assign, and appraise work products to assure high levels of performance.
Skill in consensus building and conflict management to effectively resolve conflicts.
Knowledge of the tools available to facilitate managing the work and skill in applying that knowledge to such responsibilities as maintaining records, assuring adequate resources, supplies, and equipment to accomplish the work, identifying and implementing ways to improve effectiveness and efficiency, formulating budget requests, and similar managerial functions.
Knowledge of basic human resource management programs, rules, policies, and procedures to effectively carry out supervisory responsibilities such as interviewing and recommending selections, developing performance standards and appraising subordinate performance, identifying training needs and arranging for appropriate training for staff, resolving grievances and complaints, and effectively managing disciplinary issues.
GENERAL COMPETENCIES
Interpersonal Effectiveness: Skill in responding appropriately to a diversity of groups and individuals in a variety of challenging situations. Demonstrated ability to be tactful and to treat others with respect. Skill in developing networks, achieving cooperation, and collaborating with others when appropriate, including parties outside of EAC.
Critical Thinking: Skill in purposeful, self-regulatory judgment that results in interpretation, analysis, and evaluation of all relevant considerations while remaining flexible, fair-minded in evaluation, prudent in making judgments, diligent in seeking relevant information, and persistent in seeking results.
Written and Oral Communication: Demonstrated ability to clearly, succinctly and convincingly express facts and ideas both in writing and orally. Skill in listening and appropriately responding to the ideas, points of view, or concerns of others. Skill in public speaking.
Organizational Skill: Demonstrated understanding of priorities, deadlines, administrative systems and resources needed to gather and synthesize information while balancing workload demands.
External Awareness: Skill in identifying and keeping abreast of legislation, policies and economic, political, and social trends that affect the EAC.
Bachelor's or higher degree in a related field is preferred.
You will be evaluated for this job based on how well you meet the qualifications above.
Ability to understand, interpret and utilize industry standards, and apply them to election technologies. General understanding of industry standards for cybersecurity, accessibility, and usability.
Thorough knowledge and understanding of the EAC mission, goals and objectives, programs, and functions to identify significant testing and certification issues. Related knowledge of Federal and State election laws and procedures.
Knowledge of information gathering and analysis techniques to gather, analyze, summarize, and report on voting system related data.
Ability to recommend and enhance technical policy relating to voting system standards.
Strong technical background in both systems and cyber security.
Ability to conduct and oversee complex studies or reviews.
Comprehensive knowledge of and skill in applying analytical methodologies and practices as it pertains to existing, new, and emerging voting systems.
Skill in legal and technical writing that addresses the complexities of the voting system testing and certification environment.
Required documents include a resume and the supporting documents as described in the "How to Apply Instructions" section of this announcement.
Education must be accredited by an accrediting institution recognized by the U.S. Department of Education in order for it to be credited towards qualifications. Therefore, provide only the attendance and/or degrees from schools accredited by accrediting institutions recognized by the U.S. Department of Education.
Failure to provide all of the required information as stated in this vacancy announcement may result in an ineligible rating or may affect the overall rating.
All applicants MUST submit applications via email: resumes@eac.gov. You do not need to submit your application package through the USAJOBS process.
You MUST include the job title and announcement number in the subject line of the email.
Your application package must be received by the closing date of the announcement and must include the following:
1. A resume;
2. Three professional references;
Your application materials will be reviewed and if an interview is deemed appropriate, you will be contacted with further information.
The Federal hiring process is set up to be fair and transparent. Please read the following guidance.