=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections &amp; Special Districts Director
Salary: $55,000.00 - $125,000.00 YEAR
Location: Bisbee, AZ, AZ, 85603
Employer: Cochise County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2023-09-18
Job Type: A Regular, Full Time
Job Number: 090423
Department: Board of Supervisors
Opening Date: 09/18/2023

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

DIRECTOR OF ELECTIONS AND SPECIAL DISTRICTS

Position is open until filled with first review of applications on October 9, 2023. May close at any time after that date.

ANTICIPATED SALARY: $85,000 - $100,000  annually, dependent upon qualifications, plus a comprehensive benefits package to include membership in the Arizona State Retirement System 
PLEASE NOTE: All positions require a post offer, pre-employment background screening 




NATURE OF WORK: Under limited supervision of the County  Administrator with direction from the Board of Supervisors, provides professional level project planning in all functions related to the conduct of voting and election activities for the County;  perform work of considerable difficulty to plan, organize, coordinate, direct and control all activities of the Elections & Special Districts Department in compliance with statutory and regulatory federal and state requirements; prepare and manage the annual fiscal budget for the department, develop long-range plans and anticipates/identifies long-term organizational needs; responsible for fraud prevention, detection, and deterrence;  sound judgment and considerable communication and interpersonal skills are required in this position. Performs other related duties as required.

 

ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS: As defined under the Americans with Disabilities Act, may include any of the following tasks, knowledge, skills, and other characteristics. This list is ILLUSTRATIVE ONLY and is not a comprehensive listing of all functions and tasks performed by incumbents of this class. 

TYPICAL DUTIES: (Illustrative Only) Plans, executes and finalizes election projects according to strict deadlines and within budget.  Coordinates several different elections and projects within an election cycle; effectively prioritizes and executes tasks while problem-solving in a high-pressure environment.   Acquire resources, contract with Vote Center sites; coordinate the efforts of team members and paid volunteer workers to accomplish successful elections. Manage the planning, direction, procedures and timeline development, implementation, administration and evaluation of all office and field operations related to recruitment and training of poll workers, Early Boards and Duplicating Boards, troubleshooters, couriers, drivers and delivery personnel.   Conduct voter education and outreach; ensure quality control of all aspects of elections from ballot production through tabulation of results and public information.  Ensure election results are accurate, timely, easily accessed and easily understood. Monitors election system programming, data management, security and testing of electronic election systems for ballot preparation and to ensure accuracy of voting equipment and tabulation; accept candidate filings, calculate signature requirements; oversee campaign finance filings, reports and enforcement; manage nomination, recall, initiative and referendum processes; provide election services and manage election logistics.   Perform special studies and conduct extensive research, analyze findings and develop sound conclusions; prepare comprehensive reports and plans; compile statistical data. Develop master test deck and control totals; conduct and oversee testing of all voting equipment, election media, the election tabulation machines and the election reporting system; test every ballot style in preparation for Logic & Accuracy tests prior to each election.  100% accuracy in tabulation and strict compliance with deadlines is required; perform audits as required.  Preserve data integrity; establish and maintain election calendar for management of election records; respond promptly to Public Records Requests. Manage projects and coordinate with other county/state departments to facilitate elections and exchange of data; coordinate work schedules with outside vendors (data conversion services and vote-by-mail printer/mail service provider); work in coordination with the Voter Registration department; coordinate with state, cities and towns, special districts and school districts for election ballot information and for proofing ballots. Conduct training and make public presentations; represent the department in many venues: act as the department’s media relations liaison, personally appear before the Board of Supervisors, legislative committees, citizen groups and the media to explain election results, processes and related matters.  Represents department and county in election-related court cases.   Work with the County Attorney to prepare court pleadings, motions and case testimony to be used in election-related court cases. Promote public understanding and participation in elections to community groups, through news releases to the media, in-house developed publications and via maintenance of a robust set of election webpages on the County’s website.  Build, develop and grow any business relationships vital to the success of the elections (Secretary of State's staff, state and local political party chairs, colleges and high schools, etc.).  Maintain bi-annual state-required Election Officer Certification.  Research and remain knowledgeable of applicable election laws and regulations (Help America Vote Act of 2002, Americans with Disabilities Act, federal and state election laws, the Arizona Secretary of State’s Procedures Manual, etc.).  Review, analyze, interpret and implement laws and legislation and other requirements affecting elections.  Attend specialized elections training and conferences to remain current with election laws and procedures.  Prepare detailed recommendations about new or modified regulations or policies; review federal and state bulletins on proposed law changes.  Review and analyze proposed state and federal legislation for potential impact on election processes and provide recommendations.  Draft and participate in the negotiation of contracts with other government entities for providing election services (to cities and towns, special districts, etc.); work with the Superintendent of Schools to facilitate elections for the various school districts. Prepare billings to other entities for election services provided. Research complex administrative, programmatic, technical and procedural election problems; analyze points of failure and devise effective solutions promptly.  Draft or direct the development and revision of procedures, forms, schedules and policies for the preparation and conduct of elections. Work with Assessor, IT/GIS and Recorder’s staff on the establishment of new or redistricted precincts and the preparation, maintenance and publishing of precinct maps. Assist citizens to understand pertinent statutes, requirements and processes for the establishment of special districts; provide assistance to special district boards; solicit annual reports from special districts to ensure compliance; review special district budgets; provide assistance to the Finance and Treasurer’s Departments in preparation of annual special district tax rates. Perform all aspects of supervision of office employees, including annual performance appraisals, work schedules, leave management, etc.  Coach, mentor and motivate team members; delegate work assignments, review priorities, set expectations and monitor results.   Conduct discipline when appropriate and ensure employment-related mandates, Merit Rules and County Policies are followed.  Encourage a team-based work atmosphere that embraces the County’s Vision/Mission and Code of Ethics.  Encourage team members to obtain training and education for further skills development and opportunities for advancement.

A Bachelor’s degree in public administration, political science, business management or a related field or a related field from a regionally accredited institution of higher learning recognized by the US Department of Education; and five (5) years of management experience, at least three (3) of which must have been in election administration.   Must be a registered voter in the State of Arizona at the time of appointment.  In accordance with ARS 16-407, must obtain State of Arizona, Election Officer Certification at the earliest opportunity afforded by the training scheduled set forth by the Arizona Secretary of State, following appointment.  Must possess and maintain a valid Arizona driver's license and the ability to be covered by County insurance.   

An equivalent combination of education and/or experience from which comparable knowledge, skills and abilities have been achieved may be considered.

KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS & ABILITIES:

Extensive knowledge of:

election laws and procedures;
computerized information systems; data management; data validation; systems testing; and electronic file transfers, management and storage;
knowledge of accounting procedures and auditing techniques;
fraud prevention, detection and deterrence
principals and practices of management and supervision.

Considerable skill in:

administering and managing a comprehensive elections program in a public-sector setting;
organizing and managing complex operations, with superior attention to detail and skills in handling and managing details;
using computer databases and complex computer systems and applications;
analyzing complex administrative and organizational problems and performing effective problem-solving;
preparing and managing budgets;
effectively communicating complex information simply, under pressure, verbally and in writing;
maintaining effective communication and working relationships with employees, other County departments, vendors, other governmental agencies, candidates, elected officials and the public.

Ability to:

be fair and impartial in administering the duties of the position;
read, write and speak English;
effectively address the media, public and professional groups;
work effectively under tight deadlines to accomplish project objectives;
plan, organize and supervise the work of others.

WORK ENVIRONMENT:      Work is primarily performed under limited supervision. Incumbent generally performs work in a typical office or warehouse setting with appropriate climate controls. 

PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS: Essential functions of this position require: lifting up to 50 pounds, manual dexterity, large motor skills, ability to communicate.

Medium work: Exerting up to 50 pounds of force occasionally and/or up to 20 pounds of force frequently or constantly to lift, carry, push, pull or otherwise move objects, including the human body; involves sitting only occasionally, walking and standing are required regularly, incumbents may be required to kneel, crouch/squat, crawl, climb, stoop, turn/twist, balance, reach, feel or manipulate with hands. 

Mental Application:  Utilizes memory for details and verbal instructions, requires emotional stability, critical thinking and adaptability; creative problem-solving skills.




Cochise County is an Equal Opportunity Employer


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Do you possess a State of Arizona Election Officer Certification?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        