=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Manager Election Administration - Vote by Mail
Salary: $84,423.04 - $98,777.12 YEAR
Location: Minneapolis 55414, MN, MN, 55415
Employer: City of Minneapolis
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2023-09-21
Job Type: Full-time
Job Number: 2023-00725
Department: Office of City Clerk
Division: City Clerk/Elections
Opening Date: 09/22/2023
Closing Date: 10/9/2023 11:59 PM Central
FLSA: Exempt
Bargaining Unit: CNR

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

As the largest and most vibrant city in the state, Minneapolis depends on purposeful, dedicated and innovative employees. Minneapolis has a large variety of careers for people of all experiences and backgrounds who come together for a singular purpose—serving the residents, businesses and visitors of Minneapolis.

This Manager of Election Administration oversees all aspects of the City of Minneapolis’ expansive Vote By Mail program.  The ideal leader will value attention to detail, teamwork, and serving our community.  This individual will have the opportunity to lead a diverse staff of experts who facilitate mail voting, healthcare facility voting, ballot board and tabulation, agent delivery, and ballot drop off. These responsibilities are required under State Statute and delegated County authority. This position directly supports the Division’s goal to ensure Minneapolis voters have free, impartial, and fair access to the ballot box.

Work Location
This position currently works on-site only.

Establish goals and operational plans for each election cycle, analyze operations and recommend process improvements, and assist with business planning and performance measurement activities. 
Represent the Elections & Voter Services (EVS) Division and coordinate partnership activities with external and internal stakeholders to achieve program/project goals, including service on relevant task forces, committees, with related organizations. 
Interpret and apply federal, state, and local election laws and administrative rules; continuously monitor, analyze, and report on legislative and policy activities impacting elections and ensure EVS Division responds appropriately to changes in the legal framework governing the administration of elections. 
Manage all aspects of planning, development, and implementation of EVS programs and projects including creation, maintenance, and enforcement of standards, operating procedures, regulations, and appraisal systems. 
Develop proposals, revision to rules, regulations, ordinances, and other formal documentation for the review and approval of elected officials, and other governing bodies. 
Provide leadership in development and delivery of Voter Outreach & Education program, including community-based partnerships and relevant materials. 
Prepare and make presentations to groups, citizens, elected officials, staff, and act as a liaison regarding project/program activities. 
Recruit, hire, train, supervise, review, and evaluate the work of subordinate staff, seasonal and temporary workers, interns, and election-specific employees during peak election cycles, and ensure quality and efficiency of work efforts. 
Manage financial functions related to assigned programs and projects within EVS, including developing and administering budgets and contracts. 
Manage operational activities of the program or project, including logistical planning and deployment, record keeping and compliance with retention requirements, operating systems and specific computer applications, granter reporting, etc. 
Oversee the collection and organization of information for reports, case studies, and other documentation related to the project or program managed.
 
WORKING CONDITIONS:  
Office environment and Warehouse facility.

MINIMUM EDUCATION:  
Bachelor’s degree or equivalent in a relevant field or a Certificate in Election Administration.
 
MINIMUM EXPERIENCE 
Three years of related experience.

LICENSES/CERTIFICATIONS: 
CERA (Certified Elections Registration Administrator) desired at time of hire or required to be completed following hire.
Election Administrator Certification required to be completed following hire.
Meet the eligibility requirements for attaining Election Judge certification following hire.

Selection Process
The selection process will consist of one or more of the following steps: a rating of relevant education and experience (100%). It is important that your application show all the relevant education and experience you possess. This information will be used to determine which candidates will proceed in the selection process. A submitted application is also used to verify the answers to any supplemental questions.  Only those candidates who attain a passing score (70%) on each step in the selection process will be placed on the eligible list. The City of Minneapolis Human Resources Department reserves the right to limit the number in any phase of the selection process.
 
Background Check
The City has determined that a criminal background check and/or qualifications check may be necessary for certain positions with this job title. Applicants may be required to sign an informed consent form allowing the City to obtain their criminal history and/or verify their qualifications in connection with the position sought. Applicants who do not sign the informed consent form will not be further considered for the position.

Union Representation
This position is not represented by a bargaining unit.
 
Eligible List Statement
The names of applicants who meet minimum qualification and who pass the screening process shall be placed on the eligible list for employment consideration.  This list will be certified to the hiring manager who may use the list to fill a vacancy of the same job title.  This eligible list will expire one month after it has been established.
 
Interview Selection
The hiring authority reserves the right to determine the maximum number of candidates to interview from the established eligible list.  If the hiring authority decides to interview other than by exam score order, they may select additional people to interview based on a candidate’s education or experience related to the field, work history, or skills uniquely related to the operational needs of the position.

Exceptional knowledge of full electoral process, including applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations and administration of associated programs, systems, and equipment. 
Ability to perform all duties with strict compliance with applicable laws in a fair and impartial manner. 
Knowledge of the principles of public administration. 
Knowledge of managerial techniques and the ability to effectively plan, delegate, and evaluate work, including project management. 
Knowledge and ability to work with and learn new software (Microsoft Office, Election Management System (EMS), and other databases). 
Ability to establish and maintain effective and courteous working relationships with candidates and campaign representatives, elected officials, employees, media, and general public. 
Knowledge of and skill in analyzing and evaluating data and programs including process improvement recommendations. 
Must be familiar with election environment and understand best practices on managing deliverables. 
Developed writing skills and knowledge of contract and grant proposal preparation. Ability to read and interpret official specifications, regulations, ordinances, etc. Analytic skills. Strong verbal communication skills. 
Knowledge of budget development and management.

As the largest and most vibrant city in the state, Minneapolis depends on purposeful, dedicated and innovative employees. Minneapolis has a large variety of careers for people of all experiences and backgrounds who come together for a singular purpose—serving the residents, businesses and visitors of Minneapolis.

 

The City of Minneapolis is proud to be an Equal Employment Opportunity and Affirmative Action employer.

Benefits SummaryOur employees enjoy competitive salaries and generous benefits. We pride ourselves on a comprehensive benefits program that supports employees' health and financial well-being.Programs, resources, and benefit eligibility varies based on position, average hours worked, location and length of service. For detailed benefits information, please visit the benefits page. New 12 weeks of paid Parental Leave.City employees are eligible for up to 12 weeks of paid parental leave in the event of a birth or placement for adoption of a child.InsuranceHealth insuranceEligibility for benefits begins the first of the month following employment date. The City of Minneapolis offers eligible employees one plan design with a choice of six provider networks, allowing you to select the best option for you. Available plans include Medica Choice Passport, Medica Elect, VantagePlus with Medica, Park Nicollet First with Medica, Ridgeview Community Network powered by Medica, and Clear Value with Medica.Dental insuranceThe City of Minneapolis offers dental insurance through Delta Dental of Minnesota and pays 100% of the monthly premium for eligible employees.BenefitsPaid time offOur generous leave package includes vacation, holidays and paid sick leave, which gives employees the opportunity to enhance their quality of life outside work. Amounts and accrual rates are based on years of experience and collective bargaining agreements.RetirementCity employees earn a pension and may choose to participate in additional retirement savings programs.	Pension: The City of Minneapolis participates in the Public Employees Retirement Association (PERA). Employees and the City both contribute a percentage of your pay to fund future benefits.	Deferred compensation: Employees may choose to participate in pre-tax or after-tax savings plans through the Minnesota State Retirement System (MSRS).TransportationEligible City employees may choose to participate in the following transportation programs:	Metropass: The Metropass program allows eligible employees to enroll in a pass for unlimited bus or light rail rides at a discounted price.	Parking or Van Pool: The City of Minneapolis Transportation Benefits Plan gives you options to pay certain commuting costs--such as qualified parking and van pool expenses--with pre-tax dollars.Learning and developmentTo engage and develop employees, the City of Minneapolis offers classes in leadership, cultural agility, change management and more. Additionally, educational discounts at Augsburg University, Hamline University and St. Mary's University of Minnesota are available to City employees.Other perksEmployees can also take advantage of optional life insurance, flexible spending accounts, the Employee Assistance Program (Download PDF reader), technology discounts and more.  


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Please indicate your experience in election administration.
        
        
                None
                Election judge experience, but no administration experience
                Less than six months experience
                Six months to 2 years experience
                2 to 5 years experience
                5 years or more experience
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Briefly describe your experience managing programs or projects.  Include experience creating procedures and standards, interpreting and applying relevant laws or rules, managing financials, managing operational activities, and reporting.
        
        
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Please indicate your experience in supervision or management.
        
        
                None
                Leadership experience, not supervisory
                Less than six months experience
                Six months to 2 years experience
                2 to 5 years experience
                5 years or more experience
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Briefly describe your experience supervising team members.  Include experience hiring, evaluating work, coaching, developing, and retaining talent.
        
        
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Please rate your skill level relative to Microsoft Word.
        
        
                None
                Beginner (Create and edit simple documents, change the appearance of documents using a variety of techniques)
                Intermediate (Create custom templates and styles, manage tables and data, insert graphics, etc.)
                Advanced (Automate tasks by writing and revising macros, prepare documents for publication, modify an HTML page in Word, etc.)
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Please rate your skill level relative to Microsoft Excel.
        
        
                None
                Beginner (Create a basic worksheet, work with cells/cell data by using a variety of moving and copying techniques, perform calculations by using formulas, change the appearance of worksheets using a variety of editing techniques)
                Intermediate (use Excel template and user-defined templates, sort and filter data, re-use and share data by importing and exporting, create advanced formulas and audit worksheets, etc.)
                Advanced (Apply conditional formatting, add data validation criteria, create and edit macros, work with multiple workbooks to create a workspace, etc.)
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        How did you find out about this position? (Select all that apply)
        
        
                City of Minneapolis website
                City of Minneapolis employee
                City of Minneapolis job interest card
                City of Minneapolis Career Opportunities Bulletin
                Friend or family member
                League of Minnesota Cities website
                Diversityjobs.com website
                Governmentjobs.com website
                Indeed.com website
                Minnesotajobs.com website
                LinkedIn
                Other website
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Please specify where you heard about this position (e.g., website name, City of Minneapolis employee name, job fair, professional association).
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        