=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Support Specialist - Elections
Salary: $27.56 - $36.94 HOUR
Location: Salem, OR, OR, 97309
Employer: Marion County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2023-09-29
Job Type: Full-time Regular
Job Number: 652-2023-2
Department: Clerk's Office
Division: Elections
Opening Date: 09/29/2023
Closing Date: 10/12/2023 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Non-Exempt
Bargaining Unit: 06

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

GENERAL STATEMENT OF DUTIES
 Journey-level classification of the Information Services series, which applies specialized knowledge in multiple department wide software applications; conducts training sessions; assists in design, implementation, maintenance, and configurating of systems and applications, and recommends policy or procedural changes to ensure effectiveness and efficiency of systems; provides technical assistance in and facilitates the use of computer hardware and software for a department; and performs related work as required.
 
 SUPERVISION RECEIVED
 Works under the general supervision of a supervisor who assigns work, establishes goals, and reviews work for conformance to technical standards and compliance with department goals.
 

Provides technical assistance to three divisions of the Clerk's Department: 

Elections, Recording, and Board of Property Tax Appeals (BOPTA); assists users with problems, tracks program area problems and monitors system for efficiency and effectiveness; recommends procedural changes, hardware and/or software changes or enhancements; answers a variety of routine and complex computer-related questions from users; researches and recommends the purchase of hardware and software; tests new software before implementation; installs computer software upgrades: performs some hardware maintenance and writes and maintains user documentation.  Develops, enhances, and updates web sites for entire Clerk's Department (three divisions).

 Programs, operates, trains and assists other operators on the use of:
The returned ballot envelope scanner/sorter, presently a Bluecrest Elevate Sorter, and ballot envelope address printers, presently a Neopost/Quadient HD-CX 1600 with an Accufast P8 backup printer.
 
Programs, trains and tests proprietary election ballot software and maintenance, tests and operates computer vote tally system and GIS. Produces and prints ballots and voter pamphlets. Backs up and archives digital files.    
Greets public, helps customers over the phone and counter, interprets election laws and rules for candidates, campaigns and the public, assists in voter registration file maintenance. Other tasks as assigned.
Electoral/Special districts mapping. Updates address library and processes annexations.
Assists candidates, campaign, districts and in-office file maintenance with OCVR reports; queries files to produce special reports in office.
Participates in user groups for the Oregon Centralized Voter Registration and election management system (OCVR), the Fluence mail scanner sorter, the Hart Verity voting system, and the Oregon Association of County Clerks. 
Creates and maintains relationships with vendors.
Trains and assists Election Board Workers on ballot scanning, adjudicating voter intent and other ballot-handling procedures. 

Marion County offers a generous benefits package to regular employees working 50% or more of the regularly scheduled work week and their eligible dependents.  Temporary employees and part-time regular employees working less than 50% of the regularly scheduled work week are not eligible for benefits. Most regular positions in this classification are represented by Marion County Employees Association (MCEA).   For a summary of benefits, click here.  For a complete and detailed overview of the MCEA benefits package, click here, and select MCEA Benefits from the left menu or Marion County Employees Association (MCEA) from the page links.  Regular and temporary employees are represented by MCEA.Salary and benefits are subject to union contract negotiations and may change as a result.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        In order to receive credit for your supplemental questions, your answers must be supported by details in the education and/or work experience section of your application form.  "See resume" is not an acceptable answer.  Do you understand this statement?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        What is the highest level of education you have successfully completed?
        
        
                GED
                High school
                At least 1 year of college (31 semester or 45 quarter credits)
                Associate degree (62 semester or 90 quarter credits)
                At least 3 years of college (93 semester or 135 quarter credits)
                Bachelor's degree (124 semester or 180 quarter credits)
                Master's degree (155 semester or 225 quarter credits)
                Doctorate degree (186 semester or 270 quarter credits)
                None of the above
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Indicate area of study for college education.
        
        
                Computer Science
                Business Information Systems
                Information Science
                Management Information Systems
                Science, Technology, Engineering or Math
                An area of study related to any of the above (specify below)
                None of the above
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Please specify your area of study if not listed in the previous question.  Write NA in the box if this question does not apply to you.  Education listed in this answer must be supported by the education section of your application.  "See resume" is not an acceptable answer.
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        