=== JOB DETAILS ===

Salary: $24.41 - $30.55 Hourly
Location: Tacoma, WA
Job Type: Career Service - Full Time
Job Number: 19-00201
Department: Auditor
Division: Auditor-Elections
Opening Date: 05/31/2019
Closing Date: 6/16/2019 11:59 PM Pacific

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===


Pierce County has the perfect opportunity for a detail-oriented clerical professional with a true passion for public service and exceptional interpersonal skills. The work of Pierce County Elections is consistently 24/7 - action-packed and exciting. Whether it is Election Day or another day of the year, effort is being made to continuously improve the voter experience and technology to provide the very best services to our great communities. We're a team-oriented organization that cares more than just about the daily grind. We are proud of the work we do; it's award-winning and well-respected throughout Washington State.



About the Auditor's Office:
The Pierce County Auditor's Office is responsible for elections, licensing services, public records and animal control services.
 
About the Division:
The Auditor's Elections Division maintains voter registration rolls, conducts federal, state and local elections, verifies petition signatures, publishes a local Voters' Pamphlet, and maintains precinct lines after redistricting. Pierce County has over 510,000 registered voters and conducts four elections each year.  The Elections Division serves 114 jurisdictions (boundary lines, voter assignment, elections) and files candidates for over 500 elected offices.

Essential Functions:

This position primarily involves data entry and processing of voter registration transactions, with moderate to heavy customer service interactions (phone and in-person) for 4-5 weeks prior to an election.
Maintain voter registration/elections database.
Key and update voter registration information from paper forms, Department of Licensing and on-line submittals.
Register new voters, updates voter addresses and researches voter registration records.
Provide customer service information at the front counter and over the telephone.
Understand content, intent, and applicability of the Revised Code of Washington (RCW) and the Washington Administrative Code (WAC) as they apply to election activities.
Coordinate, perform, and complete multiple duties and assignments concurrently and in a timely manner.
Process records using the state voter registration database.
Issue ballots to voters.
Respond to customers using the PC Elections email account.
Assist on special projects.
Research voters' records to ensure proper counting of ballots.
Assist Election Specialists as assigned.
Provide information for candidates regarding candidate filing.
Perform essential voter registration functions of an Election Clerk 1.
Communicate effectively verbally and in writing to audiences of various social, cultural, ethnic, educational and economic backgrounds
Other duties as assigned.

Requirements:
Three years of clerical experience
Education or related experience may be substituted equally for the recruiting requirements.
 
Preferred Requirements:
Two years of experience as an Election Clerk 1 and/or
Certification as an Elections Administrator under (WAC) and (RCW) regulations

To be considered for this opportunity please:
Complete and submit an online Pierce County Employment Application by selecting "APPLY" above or go to:   www.piercecountywa.org/jobs.
If you do not have internet access, you may visit your local public library or any WorkSource location and use their computers.
Individuals needing accommodation in the application, testing process or need this job announcement in an alternative format may call Human Resources at (253) 798-7480, at least two days prior to the need.
This is a competitive selection process.  Your application form will be reviewed and evaluated for the quality and quantity of education/experience in the areas listed.  Applicants whose qualifications most closely correspond to the County's needs will be eligible for further consideration.  Notification of application status normally occurs 4 to 6 weeks after the closing date.  Short notice may be given to applicants to participate in further selection processes which may include written, oral and performance examinations, and final interviews.
As an Equal Employment Opportunity Employer, Pierce County welcomes a diverse workforce.  Pierce County does not discriminate based on race, creed, religion, color, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, marital status, age, disability, veteran status, the presence of any sensory, mental, or physical disability, or the use of a trained guide dog or service animal by a disabled person.

Employee benefits are not just about the kind of services you get, they are also about how much you may have to pay out of pocket. Pierce County offers a competitive benefits package that offers flexibility and peace of mind.We understand that your life revolves around more than just your career and that your priority is making sure that you and your family maintain health and financial security. That's why choice is a key component of our benefits package. We have a selection of health and retirement plans, paid leave, staff training and other compensation benefits that you can mix and match to meet your current and future needs.Our benefits:Vacation (Annual Leave)After approximately six months, employees receive six days of vacation leave. Since we value your experience, the amount of vacation you can accrue increases the longer you work with us. Vacation accrues on a bi-weekly basis for full-time employees as follows:Vacation Accruals:During years 1-3, 12 DaysDuring years 4-7, 16 DaysDuring years 8-13, 20 DaysDuring years 14-18, 23 DaysDuring years 19, 24 DaysDuring years 20, 25 DaysDuring years 21, 26 DaysDuring years 22, 27 DaysDuring years 23, 28 DaysDuring years 24, 29 DaysDuring years 25 & thereafter, 30 DaysA maximum of 45 days may be carried from one year into the next.Pro-Rated for Part-Time based on % of 1.0 FTE.Military Leave:Pierce County has a proud history of supporting the armed forces and provides members of the armed forces with up to 21 days paid military leave per state fiscal year.Holidays:Some full-time employees are entitled to ten paid holidays as follows:   New Year's Day - January 1Martin Luther King, Jr's birthday - Third Monday in JanuaryPresident's Day - Third Monday in FebruaryMemorial Day - Last Monday in MayIndependence Day - July 4Labor Day - First Monday in SeptemberVeteran's Day - November 11Thanksgiving Day - Fourth Thursday in November & Friday afterChristmas Day - December 25Personal Holidays:Regular full-time and regular part-time employees also receive two additional paid personal holidays. Each paid personal holiday accrues on January 1 of each year and must be taken during the calendar year in which it was accrued.Furlough:Some Pierce County employees may be designated to receive 10 "furlough" days per year in lieu of holidays. Furlough days are available for use on January 1 and must be scheduled and taken within the calendar year. Employees who leave employment with Pierce County must reimburse the employer for used furlough days based upon the number of remaining holidays.Sick Leave:Sick leave accrues on a bi-weekly basis, at the rate of one day per month.Insurance Benefits:Employees and families are covered by medical (including vision), dental and basic life insurance.  There are multiple medical plans with very affordable monthly premiums that offer coverage throughout Pierce County.  Employees are eligible to enroll each year in a flexible spending plan, which enables them to use tax-deferred dollars toward their health care and dependent care expenses.  Employees also have the opportunity to participate in supplemental life and long term disability insurance plans.   To view premium rates, summary of benefit coverage, and other information, please visit the Pierce County Health Benefits website.Retirement and Deferred Compensation:Pierce County employees are members of the State of Washington's Department of Retirement System (DRS) and depending on the position or previous DRS enrollment will be able to enroll in one of many programs DRS offers.  For additional information, check out the Department of Retirement Systems' web site.Employees also have the ability to participate in the Nationwide Deferred Compensation Plan.  This is a supplemental retirement savings program  that allows you control over the amount of pre-tax salary dollars you defer as well as the flexibility to choose between multiple investment options.Social Security:All Pierce County employees are covered by the federal Social Security and Medicare systems. The county and the employee pay an equal amount into the system.Miscellaneous Benefits:Please visit Pierce County's Benefits website for more information.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        After closely reviewing the entire job announcement, please describe in your best words why you are a great candidate for this opportunity.
        
        
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        How many years of general office/clerical experience do you have?
        
        
                None
                Less than 4 year
                4 years, but less than 7
                7 or more years
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        How many years of voter registration/election experience do you have?
        
        
                None
                Less than 2 years
                2 years to less than 5 years
                5 years to 10 years
                More than 10 years
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Do you have experience as an Election Worker?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Are you certified as a Washington State Elections Administrator?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Please describe your voter registration/elections experience. If you do not have elections experience please describe other experience performing data entry focusing on customer relationship management.
        
        
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Employees in this position may be limited as to vacation time off during the primary and general election season and may be placed "on-call", as well as be required to work a flexible schedule, which may include evenings, weekends, holidays, and overtime. Are you willing and able to work within these parameters?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        10)	Are you able to meet the physical requirements of extended standing and lifting of 35 lbs?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        How did you hear about this opportunity?
        
        
                PIerce County Website
                governmentjobs.com
                Indeed
                LinkedIn
                Glassdoor
                Other Website
                Job Fair
                Pierce County Employee
                Other
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        If you chose Other, Pierce County Employee, or  Other Website, please provide details (name, site, etc).
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        