HR Home Salary Listing Class Descriptions Employee Benefits FAQ
Recruitment #19-485030-01
| Approximate Salary | $33.41 - $40.61/hour |
|---|---|
| Opening Date | 4/30/2019 08:30:00 AM |
| Final Filing Date | 5/21/2019 5:00:00 PM |
| Contact Information | Melaniece Lovejoy (707) 784-7830 |
| Type of Recruitment | Open Competitive |
WHY JOIN US AT SOLANO COUNTY?
COMMITMENT TO SERVICE: Our mission is to serve the people and to provide a safe and healthy place to live, learn, work and play.
We serve the public in many different ways, including:
â¢ Providing primary medical, dental, alcohol, drug and mental health services to residents, including the uninsured, low-income, and medically underserved
â¢ Providing law enforcement services in the unincorporated area of the county
â¢ Protecting the community from public health threats such as communicable diseases
â¢ Coordinating countywide responses to domestic violence and terrorism or other emergencies
â¢ Managing the criminal justice process after arrest (jail, prosecution, probation)
â¢ Supporting other local governments through efficient property tax collection as mandated by the State, County and local jurisdictions; and,
â¢ Administration and enforcement of Federal, State, and Local laws and policies pertaining to environmental health, building construction, and land use planning
OUR EMPLOYEES: Our diverse workforce is committed to fulfilling this mission and does so by exemplifying our IDEAL Core Values, engaging in our day to day work of serving the public with Integrity, Dignity, Excellence, Accountability, and Leadership.
To learn more about Solano County, please visit: www.solanocounty.com
WHY WE EXISTÂ
Ensuring confidence in the electoral process.
Housed within the Department of Information Technology, the Registrar of Voters conducts federal, state and local elections for the County.Â Additionally, the Registrar of Voters is also responsible for:
Â
To learn more about the Registrar of Voters please visit:
Â
http://www.solanocounty.com/depts/rov/default.asp
Â
Â
The Election CoordinatorÂ performs a variety of complex and difficult technical elections related work in assigned programs while supervising other employees engaged in similar activities.
The eligible list created as a result of this recruitment will be used to fill full-time and part-time regular, limited-term or extra-help positions as vacancies occur throughout the County.
POSITION REQUIREMENTS
Either: Two (2) years of lead experience over employees preparing, processing, tracking and evaluating the activities related to the conduct of federal, state, local and special elections; AND completion of 60 semester units or 90 quarter units of coursework from accredited college or university with coursework in Business Administration, Government, History, Public Administration, Political Science or closely related field (official or unofficial transcript(s) demonstrating the above must be submitted by the final filing date).
Or: Four (4) years of lead experience over employees preparing, processing, tracking and evaluating the activities related to the conduct of federal, state, local and special elections.
Note: Completion of the California Association of Clerks and Election Officials' California Professional Election Administration Course or The Election Center's Certified Elections/Registration Administrator (CERA) program, may be substituted for one year of the required experience in either of the above two patterns.
SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS
Possession of, or the ability to obtain, a valid California Class C driver's license is required.
To view the job description for this position, please visit:
http://www.solanocounty.com/civica/filebank/blobdload.asp?BlobID=16068
Solano County offers a cafeteria-style medical package with health benefits, offered through CalPERS. The County contribution for family coverage for the 2019 calendar year is $1,498.09 per month. The County offers a cash back provision for those who choose employee-only or who waive medical insurance coverage. The County may offer a supplemental contribution for employees enrolled in Employee plus Two or More coverage.
Dental and vision insurances for the employee and eligible dependents are paid 100% by the County.Â Â Â
Solano County participates in CalPERS retirement and contributes to Social Security.Â Â Â Â
The County observes 12 fixed, paid holidays per year.Â Â Â
Vacation is accrued at approximatelyÂ 10 days per year for the firstÂ 3 years.
Sick leave accrues at approximately 12 days per year.
Employees are eligible to receive an additional 2.5% longevity pay, per level, after the completion of continuous service atÂ 10, 20, 25, 30 and 35Â years.
To view the benefits for aÂ regular position, please visit:Â Â
http://www.solanocounty.com/civicax/filebank/blobdload.aspx?blobid=16515
Extra-help employees who work less than 29 hours per week do not typically receive or accrue benefits of regular employees during their period of employment. All extra-help employees accrue .034 hours ofÂ Sick Leave for every full hour worked.
To view the benefits for an extra-help position, please visit:
http://www.solanocounty.com/civicax/filebank/blobdload.aspx?blobid=21216
CULTURE OF LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT
Solano County is committed to âInvest In and For the Futureâ by providing training resources to encourage employee professional development and growth within our organization. While employed with Solano County, employees have the opportunity to pursue their career goals, interests, and develop the competencies on the Solano County Leadership Development Model by participating in the following programs:
â¢ Tuition Reimbursement Program
â¢ Annual Education Fair
â¢ County Mentoring Program
â¢ Leadership Academy
â¢ Supervisory Trainings
â¢ Skill Development Trainings
â¢ Self-paced learning opportunitiesÂ
5/21/19 â Deadline to submit application and required documents.
6/10/19 âÂ Tentative week for oral board exam for most qualified applicants.
Based on the information provided in the application documents, the qualified applicants may be invited for further examination and will either be pre-scheduled by the Department of Human Resources or be invited to self-schedule. All applicants meeting the minimum qualifications are not guaranteed advancement through any subsequent phase of the examination. Depending upon the number of applications received, the selection process may consist of an initial application screening, a mandatory information meeting, a supplemental questionnaire assessment, a written and/or practical exam, an oral board exam, or any combination listed. Responses to supplemental questions may be used as screening and testing mechanisms and will be used to assess an applicantâs ability to advance in the process; as such, responses to supplemental questions should be treated as test examination responses. Information contained herein does not constitute either an expressed or implied contract.
A minimum score of 70% is required to continue in the selection process, unless otherwise announced.
All potential new hires and employees considered for promotion to management, confidential positions or unrepresented positions will be subject to a background and reference check after contingent job offer is accepted.Â These provisions are subject to change.
RETIREES - Solano County invites all qualified candidates to apply for positions; however pursuant to Government Code Section 21221(h) and 21224, hiring restrictions may apply to California Public Sector Pension Plan Retirees.
Previously submitted application materials (i.e. copies of diploma and/or transcripts, etc.) for prior recruitments will not be applied for this recruitment but must be re-submitted for this recruitment. Any further questions can be directed to the Department of Human Resources at (707) 784-6170 or at 675 Texas Street, Suite 1800 Fairfield 94533. The office is open Monday-Friday, 8:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. EOE/AA. Â
PLEASE NOTE THE FOLLOWING:Â Candidates who attended a college or university that is accredited by a foreign or non-U.S. accrediting agency must have their educational units evaluated by an educational evaluation service.Â The result must be submitted to the Human Resources Department no later than the close of the recruitment.Â Please contact the local college or university to learn where this service can be obtained. How to Submit Your Documents In addition to uploading attachments when applying online, candidates may submit documents in-person or by mail at Solano County Department of Human Resources 675 Texas Street, Suite 1800, Fairfield CAÂ 94533, by fax to (707) 784-3424, or by email to recruitment@solanocounty.com.Â When submitting documents in-person, by mail or by fax, include the recruitment title (Election Coordinator) and the recruitment number (19-485030-01). If submitting documents by email include the recruitment title and recruitment number in the subject field.
Please note that the experience in your answers must be reflected in your employment history.
I have experience researching and applying State and Federal laws relating to elections, including specific State Elections Code, State Election Regulations, or other specific government election Code. I have experience with verifying the completeness and accuracy of candidates' nomination, filing documents, and any other candidate/campaign financial disclosure forms. I have experience creating, editing and reporting on Election definition parameters in a county level election management system.
YesÂ NoÂ
YesÂ NoÂ
YesÂ NoÂ
Veteran applicants for initial County employment with an honorable or general under conditions discharge shall receive five (5) points added to their combined score.Â Disabled veterans rated at not less than 30% disability shall have ten (10) points added to their combined score.Â Veteranâs preference points will only be added to passing scores in competitive open examinations.
It is the policy of Solano County that all employment decisions and personnel policies will be applied equally to all County employees and applicants and be based upon the needs of County service, job related merit, and ability to perform the job.
APPLICANTS WITH DISABILITIES:Â Qualified individuals with a disability, who are able to perform the essential functions of the job, with or without reasonable accommodation, and need an accommodation during any phase of the recruitment/testing/examination process (as detailed in the âSelection Processâ), must complete the following Request for Testing Accommodation by Applicants with Disabilities Form: http://www.solanocounty.com/civicax/filebank/blobdload.aspx?BlobID=23215.
This form must be received in the Human Resources Department by the final filing date of the recruitment.Â Applicants will be contacted to discuss the specifics of the request.
ClickÂ here to take a video tour of Solano County.Â
OUR COMMUNITY
Solano County is the ideal place to live, learn, work and playâ¦ Â The America's Promise Alliance has named Solano County as one of the 100 Best Communities for Young People for six straight yearsâthe only California community with that distinction.
County Population (2018): 439,793
The provisions of this bulletin do not constitute an expressed or implied contract. Any provision contained in this bulletin may be modified or revoked without notice.Â
SOLANO COUNTY IS AN EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER