As the Director of Communications, the incumbent of this position provides leadership for all EAC communications activities pertaining to the administration of Federal elections.
As the Director of Communications, the incumbent of this position provides leadership for all EAC communications activities pertaining to the administration of Federal elections.
This job requires a Public Trust background investigation.
This job does not have an education qualification requirement.
You will be evaluated for this job based on how well you meet the qualifications above.
Skill in helping to effectively communicate technical material or highly complex issues that may have controversial findings, using language appropriate to technical and /or non-technical audiences.
Knowledge of the principles, practices, methods and techniques of written and oral communications. Skill in applying such knowledge to perform assignments involving public information, internal information, and community relations activities for internal and external audiences; develop written information materials for dissemination through a variety of media; determine and effectively use the most appropriate means for transmitting information, and evaluate the effectiveness of the plans developed to communicate with targeted audiences. Knowledge of grammar, spelling punctuation and required formats and skills utilized in the preparation and distribution of correspondence.
Skill and knowledge to develop innovative written communication materials such as news releases, feature stories, fact sheets, presentations, etc., and other products that effectively transmit information about EAC's programs and activities.
Ability to navigate media management software and disseminate information using this portal. Understanding of PowerPoint and other software platforms used to disseminate EAC communications resources. Ability to do basic graphic design and video editing.
Understanding and working knowledge of program planning and contract management.
Knowledge of information gathering and analysis techniques to gather, analyze, summarize, and report on EAC initiatives.
Knowledge of capabilities and limitations of various software packages (e.g., Microsoft Windows, Calendar, Microsoft Word, Access database management, PowerPoint and Microsoft Excel) to create and revise a wide range of documents, automated records, databases, and slides.
Required documents include a resume and the supporting documents as described in the "How to Apply Instructions" section of this announcement.
All applicants MUST submit applications via email: resumes@eac.gov.
Your application package must be received by the closing date of the announcement and must include the following:
Your application materials will be reviewed and if an interview is deemed appropriate, you will be contacted with further information.
The Federal hiring process is set up to be fair and transparent. Please read the following guidance.