=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Election Specialist
Salary: $3,637.00 - $4,837.00 MONTH
Location: Thurston County, WA, WA, 98501
Employer: Thurston County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2023-03-13
Job Type: Regular Full-Time Employee
Job Number: 02R00058
Department: Auditor
Opening Date: 03/13/2023
Closing Date: 4/24/2023 7:57 AM Pacific
FLSA: Non-Exempt
Bargaining Unit: AFSCME CO

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

The Thurston County Auditor’s Office reserves the right to close the recruitment at any time. To ensure consideration for this position, please submit your application as soon as possible. The first review of applicants will begin on March 31, 2023.

The position of Election Specialist assists in the preparation and operation of County elections by processing voter registration applications and election ballots, maintains voter registration records, selection and training of election extra help staff, and education programs. Receives significant public contact requiring effective communication and service to the customers in person, by email, and telephone.

Specific responsibilities include, but would not be limited to the following:
Maintains the statewide voter registration database (VoteWA) for Thurston County through the Secretary of State's Office. Maintenance of VoteWA includes management of duplicate registrations within the state, transfer of registration to Thurston County from another county, felony management, deceased management and ID management.
Processes voter registrations, audits data entry, researches and resolves discrepancies or errors, and issues voter identification cards.
Maintains oath of office.
Assists candidates with filing and collects related fees.
Processes election ballots including receiving, counting, and verifying ballot signatures.
Compiles data and prepares reports for the Public Disclosure Commission and Election Assistance Commission yearly.
Assembles and provides voter registration forms and supplies to locations throughout the County.
Responds to public inquires for information; complies data and generates special election reports for customers; collects related fees.
Implements changes required by federal and state law within areas of responsibility and documents changes in department policies and procedures.
Although the majority of work is performed in an office environment, this position may be required to transport items to off-site locations and operate County vehicles.

High School Diploma or GED and college courses in business, office management or public administration.  Additional experience may be substituted for education on a year for year basis.
Three years of office experience, including data entry and interaction with the public.
Ability to utilize a personal computer and related software packages to perform information processing, analysis, information retrieval and tracking.
Must possess a valid Washington State Driver's license, or the ability to obtain a license within 30 days of employment, or otherwise meet the travel requirements of the position.
Election Certification (may be obtained through the Office of the Secretary of State within two years of the date of hire).
Must type 60 wpm.
Must be willing to work overtime to assist in the preparation and coordination of elections.

Knowledge of the political system, State and County statutes/ordinances, precincts, election laws, and election procedures.
Ability to grasp new techniques, read, interpret and apply work related rules, regulations, laws and procedures.
Coordinating and performing a variety of technical and administrative elections functions.
Ability to work independently and self-motivated to meet required deadlines while simultaneously completing other tasks.
Ability to be accountable for financial transactions.

Questions about this position?
The contact person for this recruitment is Tillie Naputi-Pullar, Election Manager - (360) 786-5408

This position is:
- Represented by a Union
- Eligible for benefits
- Eligible for overtime under the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA)

Items required for consideration:
- Application
- Letter of Interest
- Resume

Thurston County provides a comprehensive benefits package to all regular employees. The following is a brief summary of available benefits offered to county employees. Benefits are subject to change and may differ according to collective bargaining agreements. Plan documents and eligibility requirements are provided upon hire. This information is subject to change at anytime.Health Care Benefits:Thurston County provides medical, dental, vision and life insurance coverage for all regular full-time employees enrolled in the County's standard plans. For regular part-time employees, who work less than 75% of an FTE, the county pays a pro-rated portion of the cost for medical, dental, vision and life insurance.MedicalThurston County provides medical benefits through the Washington State's Public Employees Benefits Board (PEBB). Plan availability is based on county of residence. Each year the County determines the standard and non-standard plans. For standard plans, the County pays the full employee premium.DentalDental plans are provided through the Washington Counties Insurance Fund (WCIF). Employees have the opportunity to choose between two plans, Delta Dental, a preferred provider plan or Willamette Dental, an HMO plan.VisionThurston County employees have Vision Service Plan coverage through the Washington Counties Insurance Fund (WCIF). Employees also have additional vision coverage through their medical plan.Life InsuranceThe County provides each regular, full-time employee with a basic, term life plan of $36,000 life insurance and $36,000 accidental death and dismemberment (AD&D) coverage. Additional voluntary, supplemental life insurance and AD&D insurance is available as a payroll deduction.Dependent CoverageEligible dependents may be added to all coverage listed above. Depending upon the bargaining unit, the County pays up to a specific maximum amount toward dependent coverage with the employee paying any amount above the County maximum contribution.Pension Plans:RetirementEligible Thurston County employees participate in the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems' pension plans (PERS, PSERS, or LEOFF). With the exception of PERS plan 3, all of these plans are "defined benefit" plans with retirement benefits based on your average compensation and earned service credits. PERS Plan 3 is a hybrid plan incorporating both "defined benefit" and "defined contribution" elements. These plans are funded by both employer and employee contributions.Deferred CompensationThe County offers three voluntary deferred compensation plans for employees who would like to set aside additional deferred tax dollars into a retirement savings plan. Deferred compensation plans are 457 plans as defined by IRS regulations.Holiday and Leave Programs:Paid LeaveThurston County offers two leave plans, Alternative leave and Traditional leave. In the Alternative Leave program, leave is accrued per pay period and may be used for vacation and/or sick leave purposes. Employees in the Traditional Leave program accrue both sick leave and annual leave each pay period.Thurston County Observed HolidaysEleven paid holidays are observed by Thurston County. Depending on union contract, regular employees receive one floating holiday and one Community Service Day each calendar year, or two floating holidays each calendar year.Other County Paid Benefits:Long Term Disability (LTD)The county's long term disability plan provides a monthly benefit of 60% of your monthly base salary up to $6,000 per month after a waiting period of 90 days of disability.Employee Assistance Program (EAP)Employees and immediate family members are eligible to receive confidential, professional counseling assessment and referral services through First Choice Health.  The employee assistance program can assist and respond to all kinds of requests for counseling assessment and life concerns, such as, relationship concerns, family problems, alcohol and drug abuse problems, financial crisis, identification theft, general stress, caregiver burnout, depression, etc.  Services are available 24-hours per day, 7-days per week.Additional Voluntary Benefits:Flexible Spending Account (FSA)Employees can take advantage of Section 125 flexible spending accounts for out-of-pocket health care and daycare expenses. Section 125 FSAs allow you to pay for allowable health-related and/or dependent care expenses with pre-tax dollars.Short Term DisabilityThe County's short term disability plan is meant to assist with temporary periods of disability, as well as bridge the 90 day waiting period before the County's Long Term Disability begins.  It provides a benefit of 60% of employees weekly base salary up to $1,000 per week after a waiting period of 30 days.Worksite Plans:	Accident Insurance is designed to help pay for costs not covered by employee health insurance when injured due to an accident.	Hospital Indemnity will pay a lump sum if an employee is admitted to the hospital, and will pay a lump sum for each day your are inpatient, to a maximum of 15 days per year.	Critical Illness will pay a lump sum if you are diagnosed with certain serious conditions.  Cancer, heart attack, and stroke are a few of the listed conditions in this policy.	 Electronic Payroll Savings with TreasuryDirectCounty employees can invest in TreasuryDirect electronic savings bonds (Series I and EE) by requesting a payroll deduction. Monthly deductions are forwarded to the Federal Reserve, which enables employees to buy and redeem electronic savings bonds directly from the United States Treasury Department.Public Service Loan Forgiveness ProgramThurston County is a qualified employer under the Public Service Loan Forgiveness Act. Employees may be eligible for federal student loan forgiveness. Additional BenefitsThe County also offers direct deposit, credit union memberships, a Commute Trip Reduction Program, and other miscellaneous benefits.Top  Please click here for more information or visit the Thurston County Benefits website: Benefits 2022 Thurston County Employee Benefit Plans (thurstoncountywa.gov)