=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: DEPUTY REGISTRAR OF VOTERS
Salary: $6,081.00 - $7,391.00 MONTH
Location: Lake County, CA, CA, 95453
Employer: County of Lake
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2019-09-10
Job Type: Full-Time
Job Number: 19-156
Department: Elections
Opening Date: 09/10/2019
Closing Date: 9/30/2019 at 5:00 PM Pacific Time (US & Canada); Tijuana
FLSA: Exempt

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Recruitments for County positions are typically conducted to establish eligibility lists to fill countywide vacancies that occur during the active status of those lists (approximately 3 -12 months). Any person on a promotional eligibility list will be considered first by the hiring department(s) before persons on an open eligibility list. 
 
The County of Lake only accepts applications for permanent positions when actively recruiting. Only online applications are accepted. It is the responsibility of each applicant to review the full job description and requirements.
 
The County is an Equal Opportunity-Affirmative Action Employer. Veteran's Preference.
 
To apply for County examinations - All applications for County examinations must be submitted through the County's online application system. A completed Supplemental Questionnaire must be submitted with each online application. All permanent County recruitments will be posted at www.co.lake.ca.us with a link to the online application. The County of Lake reserves the right to limit the number of applications that will be accepted for any open recruitment, and any such limit will be included on the job posting. When a limit is posted, the recruitment is subject to close at any time prior to the final filing date. Completed online application packets must be submitted by the close of business on the date that the recruitment closes. All relevant experience must be included on the application to be considered. Relevant experience and/or education may be substituted at a ratio of 2 to 1 for the purpose of meeting minimum qualifications and applicants should contact the Human Resources department for details.
Important Notice - The provisions listed on job postings, job descriptions, or other recruitment materials do not constitute an expressed or implied contract. Benefits may vary between bargaining units. Any provisions contained within job postings, job descriptions or other recruitment material may be modified or revoked without notice. All County of Lake applicants who are given a conditional employment offer must comply with the County's pre-employment medical review program before they may be appointed to the County position.

Salary Information:
$4,493.00 $5,460.00 Monthly

Training and Experience:
Any combination of training and experience that would likely provide the required knowledge and abilities is qualifying.  A typical way to obtain the required knowledge and abilities would be: 
 
Three (3) years of previous work experience performing a variety of election or administrative and support functions comparable to that of an Elections Assistant I/II or Office Assistant III with the County of Lake which includes at least two (2) years equivalent to that of an Elections Assistant II or Office Assistant III.
 
Experience in a lead or supervisory capacity is preferred.

A Bachelor's Degree in Public Administration or Business Administration or a closely related field is desirable. 
 
Special Requirements:
Possession of, or ability to obtain, an appropriate valid California Driver's License.

DEPUTY REGISTRAR OF VOTERS
 
DEFINITION
Under administrative direction to assist with the planning, organization, direction, and administration of the operations of the Elections Department; to perform a variety of administrative, staff, and office support functions; to assist with training staff and temporary election personnel; to perform a variety of difficult, complex, and specialized election technology and support work for the conduct of local elections; to provide assistance and information to the public; to serve as the department head in the absence of the Registrar of Voters, as assigned; and to do related work, as required.
 
DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS
This is a specialized management-level classification that serves as the primary assistant to the Registrar of Voters in the performance of a variety of election work. Incumbents perform a variety of specialized election technology and support work and assist with the administration of elections held in Lake County. The classification requires knowledge of election functions, laws, and regulations.   Incumbents are required to work irregular and extended hours (evenings, weekends, and holidays) during election sessions. This class is distinguished from the Registrar of Voters in that the Registrar of Voters is the department head for the Elections Department. This is a discrete classification. The incumbent in this management position serves at the pleasure of his/her appointing authority.
 
REPORTS TO
Registrar of Voters
 
CLASSIFICATIONS SUPERVISED
Elections Assistant I; Elections Assistant II; specialized Election Day staff; and other staff as assigned.
 
EXAMPLES OF IMPORTANT AND ESSENTIAL DUTIES (The following is used as a partial description and is not restrictive as to duties required.)
Assists with planning, organizing, coordinating, and managing the operations of the Elections Department; provides supervision, training, and work evaluations for assigned staff; assists with formulating, developing, and evaluating goals, policies and procedures in order to provide clear direction and objectives; responds to complex inquiries and complaints regarding elections and related area of expertise from the public, community groups, private and public agencies, and others; explains voter registration and election procedures to the public, officeholders, candidates, committees, and local entities; prepares, monitors, and analyzes management and statistical information and reports; conducts research as needed and makes recommendations on findings; assists in the performance of the full scope of complex election administrative and support functions; makes recommendations on the department budget; assists in conducting training classes for temporary election staff; assists in the set up and programming of all elections conducted by the department; tests the electronic voting system; assists in assuring the security of election materials; creates voter registration information on electronic media; maintains and updates street index file; maintains and updates precinct maps in accordance with jurisdictional boundary lines and relevant election codes and laws; makes changes in precinct boundaries due to annexations, new residential development or changes in voter population; realigns precinct boundaries and voter files and establishes or consolidates precincts in accordance with state and local reapportionment actions; operates and maintains computerized election information systems; monitors operating system for problems; recovers damaged files and runs programs to repair files and generate error reports; installs software applications on PCs; confers with software and hardware vendors regarding problems and maintenance; prepares requisite election reports and reimbursement statements; directs the receipt and verification of petitions and candidate filing documents.
 
TYPICAL PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS
Sit and perform data entry for extended periods; frequently stand and walk; periodic exertion of physical efforts, such as bending, stooping and squatting; normal manual dexterity and eye-hand coordination; lift and move objects weighing up to 25 lbs.; corrected hearing and vision to normal range; verbal communication; use of office equipment, including computer, typewriter, telephone, calculator, copiers, FAX, and ballot counter.
 
TYPICAL WORKING CONDITIONS
Work is performed in an office environment; may occasionally work outside; continuous contact with other staff and the public.
 
DESIRABLE QUALIFICATIONS
 
Knowledge of:
Policies, functions, and requirements of the Elections Department.
Applicable state, federal, and local ordinances, laws, rules, regulations, and legislation governing the conduct of elections, filing of petitions, and the registration of voters.
Proper procedures for the acceptance and filing of candidate documents.
Good public relations techniques.
Maintenance of files and information retrieval systems.
General accounting processes and statistical record keeping.
Computerized election systems and software programs.
Basic knowledge of the countywide GIS (Geographic Information System).
Principles of management, supervision, training, and employee evaluation.
Methods and techniques of research, statistical analysis, and report preparation and presentation.
Principles and practices of planning, goal setting and implementation.
 
Ability to:
Assist with planning, directing, coordinating, and managing the functions of the Elections Department.
Provide supervision, training, and timely work evaluations for assigned staff.
Assist in the performance of a variety of difficult and complex election administration and oversight.
Perform a variety of difficult and complex election technology and support functions.
Follow oral and written directions.
Type or use word processing software at an acceptable speed to meet production requirements.
Read, understand, interpret, and explain codes, statutes, and information related to the conduct of elections.
Gather and organize data and information.
Analyze situations and make logical conclusions.
Make arithmetic calculations.
Maintain accurate records, inventories, files and indexes.
Establish the validity of candidate filing documents and Conflict of Interest Statements.
Operate election-related computer equipment and run elections software.
Troubleshoot computer related problems and develop effective solutions.
Read and interpret maps, drawings and property documents.
Assist in the development of supervisorial and precinct boundary adjustments following each decennial census (reapportionment)
Effectively represent the Registrar of Voters in responding to inquiries and providing information and assistance about elections.
Regularly work well under pressure, meeting multiple and sometimes conflicting deadlines.
Constantly demonstrate cooperative behavior with colleagues, supervisors, and customers/clients.
 
Training and Experience:
Any combination of training and experience that would likely provide the required knowledge and abilities is qualifying.  A typical way to obtain the required knowledge and abilities would be: 

Three (3) years of previous work experience performing a variety of election or administrative and support functions comparable to that of an Elections Assistant I/II or Office Assistant III with the County of Lake which included at least two (2) years of equivalent to that of an Elections Assistant II or Office Assistant III. 

Experience in a lead or supervisory capacity is preferred. 

A Bachelor's Degree in Public Administration or Business Administration or a closely related filed is desirable. 
 
Special Requirements:
Possession of, or ability to obtain, an appropriate valid California Driver's License.
 
The contents of this class specification shall not be construed to constitute any expressed or implied warranty or guarantee, nor shall it constitute a contract of employment. The County of Lake assumes no responsibility beyond the general accuracy of the document, nor does it assume responsibility for any errors or omissions in the information contained herein. The contents of this specification may be modified or revoked without notice. Terms and conditions of employment are determined through a "meet and confer" process and are subject to the Memorandum of Understanding currently in effect.

RETIREMENT - County employees are members of the California Public Employee Retirement system (CalPERS). CalPERS provides a defined benefit pension at retirement for County employees. The pension formulas and employee contribution amounts may vary by bargaining unit, date of hire, prior qualifying service, and classification.  Please contact Human Resources for more information.HEALTH AND INSURANCE BENEFITS - Medical, dental, hospital, vision, life and disability coverage is available to employees and their dependents. The County contributes $1,000 of the monthly premiums for the insurance plan options.VACATION ACCRUAL may be adjusted for current city or county government employees.VACATION – 80 hours per year during the first five years of service, 120 hours per year after five years, and additional accruals based on years of service beyond fifteen years. Pro-rated for part-time employees.SICK LEAVE - Accrues at a rate of 96 hours per year. Pro-rated for part-time employees.HOLIDAYS- An average of twelve paid 8-hour holidays per year. Pro-rated for part-time employees.SALARY - Lake County has an adopted salary schedule. The salary range for most classifications is in five increments with a provision for longevity increases. Appointments are normally made at the first step of the salary range.SOCIAL SECURITY - County employees participate in Social Security.CALIFORNIA STATE DISABILITY INSURANCE – SDI is available to some County employees.DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLANS and CREDIT UNION MEMBERSHIPS are available to County employees.


                    
    
        

01

    

    
        I understand that all of my relevant education and experience must be included on the application form, and that an unofficial transcript MUST be included in order to use my education as credit toward the minimum qualifications of the job description.  Furthermore, I understand that only information contained and submitted on the application will be used when screening my qualifications against the minimum requirements of the position, and failure to include relevant information may eliminate me from consideration for this position.
        
        
                Yes
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        I MUST provide an unofficial transcript to certify that my education qualifies towards the minimum requirements of the position.   A copy of my degree will not be accepted to certify my education.   I have attached my unofficial transcript.
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        I have a DD-214 and I have been honorably discharged from military service. I understand it's my responsibility to attach my DD-214 to my application.
        
        
                Yes
                Not Applicable
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Do you have three (3) years of previous work experience performing a variety of election or administrative and support functions comparable to that of an Elections Assistant I/II or Office Assistant III with the County of Lake which included at least two (2) years equivalent to that of an Elections Assistant II or Office Assistant III?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Do you have experience in a lead or supervisory capacity?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Do you have a Bachelor's Degree in Public Administration, Business Administration or a closely related field?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Do you have, or can you obtain, a valid California Driver's License by date of hire?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Can you submit to, and pass a background check prior to appointment? Depending upon the position and/or assigned department the background check may include, but is not limited to: civil and criminal history check, reference check, Livescan, and/or credit check (as allowed under state law)
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        I certify that to the best of my knowledge, my answers to the supplemental questions are true and accurate and that all relevant experience, education, certifications, licenses, and trainings are included on my application form.  I understand that my answers are subject to verification and that any intentional misrepresentation may be sufficient cause to eliminate me from further consideration for this position.
        
        
                Yes
        
    


                        
                            * Required Question
                        
                