=== JOB DETAILS ===

Salary: $4,275.00 - $5,745.00 Monthly
Location: Thurston County – Olympia, WA
Job Type: Full Time - Permanent
Job Number: 18 EL PS4 0261
Department: Office of the Secretary of State
Division: Elections
Opening Date: 02/20/2019
Closing Date: 3/25/2019 3:01 PM Pacific

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===


NOTE: *This job posting is being reopened.  If you have already applied for this position, there is no need to reapply.

Headed by an elected state official, the Office of the Secretary of State is responsible for administering elections within the state, registering corporations and charities that do business within the state, collecting and preserving the records of governmental bodies within the state, and maintaining the Washington State Library.  The office also administers the Address Confidentiality Program, the Legacy Program, and the Combined Fund Drive.  Visit our website at: www.sos.wa.gov.
 
Elections Administrator Certification Program Specialist 4
Permanent, Full-Time

This position reports to the certification and training program manager and is responsible for overseeing, reviewing and advising county auditors on the federal and state elections laws and the administration of voter registration.


Serves as the lead program specialist in the required election administrator certification program; Certifies state and local election administrators following a series of classes and tests

Manages and maintains records of Elections Administrators
Manages and maintains internal and external documents for elections administrators
Creates certificates for newly certified administrators
Evaluates exams for sufficiency of passage
Validates certification documents
Identifies talking points for the Secretary of State when presenting certificates
Independently reviews initial and renewal applications to determine whether the training qualifies for credit towards certifications
Administers certification tests
Issues certificate to qualified participants

Participates in the elections training program and county election review program; travels extensively throughout the state to conduct reviews of county elections departments
Plans and Develops curriculum
Assists with logistical arrangements for facilities and accommodations
Arranges for guest speakers
Makes presentations at training opportunities for Secretary of State staff, county election administrators, political party observers, and county canvassing board
Assists in planning the Annual Election Conference – developing agenda, selection of speakers, vendor coordination, and logistical arrangements
Makes logistical arrangements for facilities and accommodations
Conducts elections 101 orientation training
Assists the voter education and outreach programs
Visits counties to observe election practices
Reviews written election materials prepared by the counties
Reviews written and observed procedures for compliance with state and federal election law
Reviews written and observed procedures for improvements based on best practices
Makes recommendations to counties that conforms with state and federal election law and best practices
Prepares publicly available review reports on the findings of the review

Participates in the initiative and referenda filing and clearinghouse advisories program
Serves as backup for initiative and referendum filings
Assists in developing a variety of advisories for use by elections professionals such as county auditors, county election administrators, the Public Disclosure Commission, candidates, political party representatives, the press, and the public

Provide support to Washington State counties on election processes, county WEI systems, and logic and accuracy test program
Conducts logic and accuracy tests at county election offices: reviews test patterns for acceptance within allowable standards; presides over test to ensure accuracy and test uploads for results; creates remediation plan for failures
Researches and accurately responds to county questions

Miscellaneous
Advises and supports county auditors and county election administrators.
Ensures the assigned areas of the Elections website are accurate, functioning and up-to-date
Assists in development of WACs and RCWs
Acts as back-up to other Elections Division programs
Other duties as assigned


Required Qualifications

Four years of experience providing support to staff or a program including, but not limited to interpreting policy and instructing others on application of policies, representing a program or office to clients, composing correspondence, scheduling appointments and meetings, working cooperatively with political party representatives, elected officials, election administrators, and the press and public in sensitive situations.
Ability to efficiently use a personal computer and applicable software to successfully perform the essential functions of the position.
Current Washington State driver's license or have requested and obtained an appropriate accommodation.

Preferred/Desired Qualifications
Bachelor's degree and two years of experience in interpreting policy and instructing others on application of policies, representing a program or office to clients, composing correspondence, scheduling appointments and meetings, working cooperatively with political party representatives, elected officials, election administrators, and the press and public in sensitive situations.
Certified Election Administrator in Washington State
Experience working in an elections office
Experience preparing and delivering presentations to small and large groups
Excellent communication skills, both written and verbal
Demonstrated ability to effectively communicate with individuals and groups regarding complex or controversial public policy issues or service

Special Requirements/Conditions of Employment
Certification as an Elections Administrator within two years of employment
This position is covered by a union shop provision.


How to Apply

Please attach a resume and a letter of interest describing how your experience and qualifications relate to the position description and the required and preferred/desired qualifications.
All veterans must include a copy of your DD214 to receive preference in the hiring process.  You must redact your social security number before attaching it to your application.

The Office of the Secretary of State is an equal opportunity employer (EOE). We do not discriminate on the basis of religion, age, gender, marital status, color, creed, national origin, political affiliation, military status, gender identity, sexual orientation, or any sensory, mental or physical ability. All interested candidates are encouraged to apply. Persons of disability needing assistance in the application process, or those needing the announcement in alternative format, should call (360) 704-5210.

More than Just a Paycheck! Employee benefits are not just about the kind of services you get, they are also about how much you may have to pay out of pocket. Washington State offers one of the most competitive benefits packages in the nation.We understand that your life revolves around more than just your career and that your priority is making sure that you and your family will maintain health and financial security. That's why choice is a key component of our benefits package. We have a selection of health and retirement plans, paid leave, staff training and other compensation benefits that you can mix and match to meet your current and future needs. Read about our benefits: The following information describes typical benefits available for full-time employees who are expected to work more than six months. Actual benefits may vary by appointment type or be prorated for other than full-time work. Check with the agency human resource office for specific benefit information.Insurance Benefits Employees and families are covered by medical (including vision), dental and basic life insurance.  There are multiple medical plans with affordable monthly premiums that offer coverage throughout the state.  Staff are eligible to enroll each year in a medical flexible spending account which enables them to use tax-deferred dollars toward their health care expenses.  Employees are also covered by basic life and long term disability insurance, with the option to purchase additional coverage amounts.  To view premium rates, coverage choice in your area and how to enroll, please visit the Public Employees Benefits Board (PEBB) website. Retirement and Deferred Compensation State Employees are members of the Washington Public Employees' Retirement System (PERS).  New employees have the option of two employer contributed retirement programs.  For additional information, check out the Department of Retirement Systems' web site. Employees also have the ability to participate in the Deferred Compensation Program (DCP).  This is a supplemental retirement savings program (similar to an IRA) that allows you control over the amount of pre-tax salary dollars you defer as well as the flexibility to choose between multiple investment options. Vacation (Annual Leave) You begin accruing vacation starting your first month of employment. Since we value your loyalty, the amount of vacation you can accrue increases the longer you work with us. Washington State supports members of the armed forces with 21 days paid military leave per year. Vacation accrues for full-time employees per WAC 357-31-165. Holidays Full-time employees are entitled to eleven* paid holidays: HOLIDAYDATE New Year's DayJanuary 1 Martin Luther King, Jr's birthdayThird Monday in January Presidents' DayThird Monday in February Memorial DayLast Monday in May Independence DayJuly 4 Labor DayFirst Monday in September Veterans' DayNovember 11 Thanksgiving DayFourth Thursday in November & Friday after Christmas DayDecember 25 Personal HolidayEmployee's selection each calendar year*Employees who are members of certain Unions are entitled to an additional personal leave day of their choice. Please refer to specific Collective Bargaining Agreements for more information. Social Security All state employees are covered by the federal Social Security and Medicare systems. The state and the employee pay an equal amount into the system. Sick Leave Full-time employees earn eight hours of sick leave per month. Paid sick leave may be used for reasons included in WAC 357-31-130. Please visit the State HR Website for more detailed information.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Where did you hear about this job opening?
        
        
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Do you have a family member or relative employed at the Office of the Secretary of State?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        If you answered Yes in the previous question, what is the name of your family member/relative?
        
        
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Do you have experience tracking and maintaining a database with multiple fields and frequent updates?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        If you indicated that you had experience above, please describe the kind of duties below, the types of tasks, and what employer you gained this experience with that is listed in your work experience. If you do not have this type of experience, please enter "N/A" in the box below.
        
        
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have communicating information to groups?
        
        
                I do not have this type of experience, but I am willing to learn.
                I have more than 1 year of experience, but less than 2 years.
                I have more than 2 years of experience, but less than 3 years.
                I have more than 3 years of experience.
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        If you indicated that you had experience above, please describe the kind of duties below, the types of tasks, and what employer you gained this experience with that is listed in your work experience. If you do not have this type of experience, please enter "N/A" in the box below.
        
        
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Do you have any experience providing materials and training to a group on a particular topic?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        If you indicated that you had experience above, please describe the kind of duties below, the types of tasks, and what employer you gained this experience with that is listed in your work experience. If you do not have this type of experience, please enter "N/A" in the box below.
        
        
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        Do you have experience working in an elections office?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

11

    

    
        If you indicated that you had experience above, please describe the kind of duties below, the types of tasks, and what employer you gained this experience with that is listed in your work experience. If you do not have this type of experience, please enter "N/A" in the box below.
        
        
        
    


    
        

12

    

    
        Do you have knowledge of federal and Washington State election laws?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

13

    

    
        If you indicated that you had experience above, please describe the kind of duties below, the types of tasks, and what employer you gained this experience with that is listed in your work experience. If you do not have this type of experience, please enter "N/A" in the box below.
        
        
        
    


    
        

14

    

    
        Do you have experience using publication software?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

15

    

    
        If you indicated that you had experience above, please describe the kind of duties below, the types of tasks, and what employer you gained this experience with that is listed in your work experience. If you do not have this type of experience, please enter "N/A" in the box below.
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        