=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Warehouse Technician
Salary: $35,731.90 - $41,073.14 YEAR
Location: Elections - Prescott, AZ, AZ, 86305
Employer: Yavapai County Government
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2017-03-15
Job Type: Full Time - Non Exempt
Job Number: 2017_00057
Department: Elections
Opening Date: 03/15/2017
Closing Date: 5/30/2017 12:55 PM Arizona

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

PLEASE NOTE:  This is not a typical warehouse job; no hard hats or heavy equipment operator licenses are necessary.  Ideal candidate would have experience in election equipment testing and maintenance, leading a group of seasonal staff, project planning and preparing documents.  Preference will be given to candidates with supervisory, project management and Microsoft Office experience.

Under minimal supervision, coordinates all the logistical activities for obtaining and equipping the county's polling locations.  This includes assuring that these sites are in compliance with the Americans with Disability Act (ADA) and Help America Vote Act of 2002 (HAVA);

Employment with Yavapai County Government is contingent upon successfully passing a criminal background check and verification of work history, academic credentials, licenses and certifications, as applicable.
 

We provide equal access and equal opportunity in employment and services and do not discriminate.

Recruit, supervise & train election temporary employees. Train precinct election officials and trouble shooters.   (30%)
 
Test and maintain all voting equipment and test ballots, following Federal requirements.   (20%)
 
Obtain and audit polling places for ADA compliance and coordinate activities with polling place management. Arrange for delivery and pickup of Election Day supplies to polling places and/or jurisdictions.   (15%)
 
Inventory and order warehouse supplies to ensure polling sites are properly equipped on Election Day. Inventory of ballots and tracking of election equipment.   (10%)
 
Assists in developing policies, procedures and long term strategies.  Attends specialized elections training to remain current with election laws and procedures.   (10%)
 
Provide election information to the public, candidates, committees, elected officials and staff by answering questions, explaining programs and resolving complaints regarding election laws and procedures.   (5%)
 
Prepare periodic and special reports; Document retention and destruction.   (5%)
 
Performs other job related duties as assigned.   (5%)

Experience: 
Two years of professional level experience including one or more of the following: administration of elections; project planning, prioritizing and scheduling; extensive knowledge of Election laws and procedures; extensive knowledge of Election Equipment; or an equivalent combination of training and experience.
 
Education: 
A high school diploma or GED.

Interpersonal Skills: 
Courtesy, tact, and diplomacy are essential elements of the job.  Work involves personal contact with others inside and/or outside the county for the purposes of giving or obtaining information, building relationships, making reports, or soliciting cooperation.
 
Other Skills:  
Possession of or ability to obtain State of Arizona Election Officer Certification (35 hour election officer education, training and certification program) within 2 years.  Valid AZ Drivers License.  A registered voter of Yavapai County.  Eligible to become a commissioned Arizona Notary.  Able to lift 50 pounds without assistance. Strict Confidentiality required.  Supervisory experience desirable.
 
This position works 40 hours / week except during the preparation for and conducting of elections, during which extensive additional hours will be necessary including weekends and holidays.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Do you have a high school diploma or GED?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Please select professional experience you may have from the list below.
        
        
                Adminstration of Elections
                Project Planning
                Extensive knowledge of Election laws and procedures
                Extensive knowledge of Election Equipment
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        