=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF ELECTIONS (8/3/21)
Salary: $71,518.00 - $71,518.00 YEAR
Location: Cedar Rapids, IA, IA, 52404-2100
Employer: Linn County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2021-08-02
Job Type: Full Time
Job Number: 2021-00970
Department: AUDITOR
Division: Auditor-Elections
Opening Date: 08/03/2021
Closing Date: 8/15/2021 5:00 PM Central
FLSA: Exempt
Bargaining Unit: MG

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

 STARTING SALARY RANGE:  $71,518 - $101,318
 
Under limited supervision, performs supervisory and administrative work in directing all County election activities.

Supervises and evaluates the work of subordinate staff; effectively recommends personnel actions related to selection, performance review, scheduling and discipline; administers personnel and related policies and procedures.
 

Provides training to full, part-time and temporary staff to insure that elections are properly administered.
 

Directs all election activities including voter registration, ballot preparation, data processing, the canvassing of returns, the location of polling places, absentee ballots, the coordination of election night returns, the distribution and receipt of nomination papers and the preservation of voting records.
 

Insures that voting equipment is in proper working order and that appropriate procedures are in place to safeguard the equipment.
 

Monitors legislative actions to determine what changes may be required in election policies and procedures.
 

Interacts with candidates for public office, the media, city and school officials and the general public to answer questions regarding the election process, provide information and coordinate related activities.
 

Develops and administers the budget of the Elections Office.
 

Prepares special reports.
 

Performs related duties as required.
 

Graduation from an accredited four (4) year college or university with major course work in business or public administration or a related field, and three (3) years of supervisory or related experience, or any equivalent combination of training and experience that will have provided the required knowledge, skills and abilities.   
 

Knowledge of the rules, regulations and procedures relating to election laws; knowledge of the current principles and practices of effective supervision; knowledge of modern office practice, procedures and equipment; knowledge of recordkeeping and reporting practices; proven ability to supervise and direct other personnel; ability to work with and interpret areas affected by data processing; ability to prepare accurate and complete narrative and statistical reports; ability to communicate effectively both verbally and in writing; ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships with other County employees, elected officials, candidates for office and the general public.   


Must pass a County physical examination which includes a drug test after offer of employment. 


Subject to criminal and credit history review.  


Regular work attendance required.
 

Linn County offers a comprehensive benefits package including paid leave and holidays as well as medical, dental, life, long-term disability (LTD) insurance and wellness incentives.For a more detailed overview of our benefit package, click HERE 