=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Operations Manager (Clerk&#39;s Office)
Salary: $68,598.40 - $96,033.60 YEAR
Location: Santa Fe, NM, 87501
Employer: Santa Fe County
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2023-07-17
Job Type: Full-Time
Job Number: 202300182
Department: Clerk's Office
Opening Date: 07/18/2023
Closing Date: 9/5/2023 1:56 PM Mountain
FLSA: Exempt
Bargaining Unit: NON-UNION
Department Contact Information: Evonne Gantz
Union Eligibility: Position is not covered by any Collective Bargaining Agreement in Santa Fe County

BENEFITS:
  • Medical
  • Dental
  • Vision
  • Life Insurance
  • Accidental Death & Dismemberment (AD&D) Insurance
  • Voluntary Life and AD&D
  • Short-Term Disability
  • Long-Term Disability
  • Flexible Spending Account (FSA)
  • Employee Assistance Program (EAP)
  • Gym Membership

To learn more details, visit our website:
Health Benefits	Leave and Retirement	Additional Employee Benefits	Employee Development Program

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Under the general direction of the Department Director or elected official, establishes, implements, and oversees sound financial management, accounting, budgeting, staffing, procurement, and monitoring of internal control systems and processes for a department.  Oversees multiple program support functions within the Department.  This position will also manage the customer service and front window functions of the Clerk’s office. 

Collaborates with Finance Department to establish the departmental budget request and submittal; executes, analyzes, forecasts, and manages budget in compliance with County policy.
Oversees the development, tracking, and processing of all Department contracts, Requests for Proposal (RFP), Personnel Actions (PA), and payroll.
Tracks grants and bond expenditures to ensure timeliness and efficiency.  
Serves as the official liaison with County Finance Department, Legal Department, and Personnel Department regarding Contracts, RFP’s, and payroll.   
Ensures internal control structure, budgetary control system and all accounting processes are functioning effectively within the department.
Certifies that payments to vendors are accurate and timely and are for goods and services rendered in accordance with County policy. 
Disseminates information to management regarding the fiscal procedures and responsibilities regarding all financial transactions and activities. 
Coordinates program support activities within the Department; may present information at Board of County Commission meetings; may develop policies and business procedures for the department; and may audit and verify department payroll matters.  
Supervises timesheet submission for the department, ensuring timesheets are accurate and complete. 
Coordinates with the County Human Resource Department regarding the processing and tracking of all employee actions and issues; collaborates with Human Resources to facilitate recruitment for the department.
Assists the Department Director/Elected Official with projects and assignments of priority and ensures completion of assignments in an effective and timely manner. 
Responds to questions and requests for information for the department. 
Hires, orients, trains, supervises, assigns and reviews work of, evaluates, and disciplines staff; recommends staff for promotion, compensation increases; and disciplinary action. Schedules, plans, and oversees or assists with departmental meetings; attends external meetings as representative of department; and attends meetings with government officials, vendors, and the public. 
Maintains knowledge of emerging technology and trends, current industry standards, evolving technologies, and methodologies that will impact department.
Manages the customer service procedures and protocols in the Clerk’s Office; is readily available by phone, chat and email. 
Answers the main phone number and Clerk inbox; follows up with customer requests
Manages the Clerk’s Office calendar protocol, chat and ticketing systems
Maintains lists of regular customers by type: titles companies, surveyors, etc.
Notifies customers of any operational changes, ensures holidays are posted
Maintains effective communications with users regarding vendor activities, problems, status, timelines and other details.
 Knowledge and Skills

Knowledge of business and management principles involved in strategic planning, resource allocation, human resources processes and coordination of people and resources. 
Knowledge of financial analysis and the reporting of financial data.   
Knowledge of office procedures and equipment including basic office machinery and word processing programs and the ability to learn more complex computer programs.
Ability to make well-informed, effective, and timely decisions and to perceive the impact and implications of those decisions.
Ability to communicate effective, both verbally and in writing; to listen effectively; and to provide clear direction.
Ability to model professional and creative problem solving demeanor for staff; to exercise good judgment; and to recommend constructive solutions and behaviors for employees.
Ability to train and mentor staff; to plan, assign, direct and review the work of assigned staff; and to supervise work of staff with dignity and in a courteous manner. 
Ability to establish and maintain effective and cooperative working relationships with others; and to accurately represent supervisors and management in dealing with County employees and the public. 
Ability to deal tactfully with controversial matters, to maintain confidentiality; and to effectively communicate, both verbally and in writing.
Skilled in mathematics for business environments.
Skilled in operating various word-processing, spreadsheet, database and other software programs in a Windows environment.
Skilled in effective customer service.



Bachelor’s degree in Public or Business Administration, or related field; and
Four (4) years of professional experience in developing contracts, the procurement process, working with budgets, personnel matters, or in a professional office environment, with a minimum of two (2) years supervisory experience; or 
Any combination of education or experience in public or business administration or a closely related field totaling eight (8) years, of which at least two (2) must be in a supervisory capacity.    
Related education and experience may be substituted at a rate of thirty (30) semester hours equal to one (1) year experience.

Working Conditions:
 
Work is performed primarily in an office setting with occasional work in the field.   Work schedule may include evening and weekend hours. Must be able to meet deadlines and work overtime during peak election periods. Travel may be required.  While performing the duties of this job, the employee regularly is required to stand, walk, and sit; use hands to finger, handle or feel; reach with hands or arms; stoop, kneel, crouch, or crawl; and talk or hear.  Clarity of vision at long and short distance is required. May lift up to 20 pounds. On occasion, may be exposed to hazardous materials; to high risk or potentially dangerous situations; to dust, fumes, airborne particles, or allergens; to excessive noise; to working near hazardous or moving equipment or machinery; and to hostile, violent, or offensive individuals. May rarely use protective clothing, equipment, devices, or materials. May be subject to exposure to CRTs and VDTs.
   
Conditions of Employment:
 
Selected candidate must submit to and pass a County paid pre-employment physical and drug/alcohol screening. Additionally, selected candidate must submit to and pass a county paid criminal background screening. Selected candidate must possess and maintain a valid New Mexico Class D Driver’s License as incumbent shall be appointed to drive a County vehicle during the performance of his/her duties. 

Santa Fe County is an Equal Opportunity Employer
It is the policy of Santa Fe County to ensure equal employment opportunity to all persons regardless of race, color, age, physical or mental handicap, sex, national origin, ancestry, religion, serious medical condition, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, or political affiliation.