The purpose of EAC's national voting system certification program is to independently verify that voting systems applying to the EAC program comply with the functional capabilities, accessibility, and security requirements necessary to ensure the integrity and reliability of the voting system, as established in the Voluntary Voting System Guidelines. The incumbent of this position is a first line supervisor for the Voting System Testing and Certification (VST&C) Division.
The purpose of EAC's national voting system certification program is to independently verify that voting systems applying to the EAC program comply with the functional capabilities, accessibility, and security requirements necessary to ensure the integrity and reliability of the voting system, as established in the Voluntary Voting System Guidelines. The incumbent of this position is a first line supervisor for the Voting System Testing and Certification (VST&C) Division.
Major duties and responsibilities include directing efforts toward accrediting independent test laboratories, testing and certifying voting systems, maintaining technical standards, and oversight of guidelines.
Candidates must be a US Citizen.
Candidates must meet all qualifications prior to the closing date of this announcement.
None.
You will be evaluated for this job based on how well you meet the qualifications above.
Once the application process is complete, a review of your resume/application will be made to ensure you meet the qualifications and job requirements for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully. Your qualifications will be evaluated on the basis of your level of knowledge, skills, abilities, and/or competencies.
Technical Competencies:
Required documents include a resume and the supporting documents as described in the "How to Apply Instructions" section of this announcement.
Education must be accredited by an accrediting institution recognized by the U.S. Department of Education in order for it to be credited towards qualifications. Therefore, provide only the attendance and/or degrees from schools accredited by accrediting institutions recognized by the U.S. Department of Education.
Failure to provide all of the required information as stated in this vacancy announcement may result in an ineligible rating or may affect the overall rating.
You must submit your application so that it will be received by the closing date of the announcement.
Your application package must be received by the closing date of the announcement and must include the following:
A resume or an Optional Application for Federal Employment (OF 612) or any other format. Although we do not require a specific format, certain information is required to determine if you are qualified;
For current or former federal employees with reinstatement eligibility, you must submit a copy of your last Notification of Personnel Action (SF50) showing your position, title, series, grade and eligibility;
A copy of your most recent performance appraisal. If you do not have a recent performance appraisal, please explain why you do not have one.
All APPLICATION MATERIALS MUST BE SENT TO: resumes@eac.gov
Your application materials will be reviewed and if an interview is deemed appropriate, you will be contacted with further information.
The Federal hiring process is set up to be fair and transparent. Please read the following guidance.