=== JOB DETAILS ===

Salary: $39,411.00 - $44,337.50 Annually
Location: 168 S Main St. Coolidge, AZ
Job Type: Full-Time
Job Number: 201900087
Department: Elections
Opening Date: 03/13/2019
Closing Date: 3/13/2019 11:59 PM Arizona

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

JOB SUMMARY
Perform a variety of paraprofessional and technical functions in the administration and support of the elections functions for Pinal County under general supervision.

Work in this classification requires an individual to be able to perform the essential job functions satisfactorily.  Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable individuals with disabilities to perform the primary classification functions herein described. Since every duty associated with this classification may not be described herein, employees may be required to perform duties not specifically spelled out in this classification description, but which may be reasonably considered to be incidental in the performing of their duties just as though they were actually written out in this description.

TYPICAL CLASSIFICATION ESSENTIAL DUTIES:           
Prepare contacts, assign poll worker notices, create notices advising poll workers to which Voting Precincts they have been assigned, and review and verify that confirmation from poll worker is received by deadline.
Coordinate payroll for poll workers, in-house election boards, and troubleshooters and prepare payments for poll workers.
Conduct poll worker classes and update poll worker instruction manual based on changes in legislation, equipment, etc. for each election cycle.
Submit agenda items to approve poll worker assignments, polling locations, canvassing, and other assignments and conduct election troubleshooter training on proper Election Day procedures.
Contract with various entities for the use of buildings for polling locations, research area to be voted in, and locate facilities with adequate space for use on Election Day.
Coordinate and send notices to all cities, towns, school districts, and special taxing districts advising of the dates for the upcoming year and provide a time schedule to submit requests to the department for election assistance.
Draft and publish required legal notices in local newspapers.
Process and submit accounts payable, federal grant reports and billing, and other various reporting to the State election division for processing.
Provide basic technical support to the automated electronic voting machines and ensure voting equipment is maintained and operates properly for election.
Assist with ballot creation duties including proofreading all ballot styles, sending ballot proofs to candidates and jurisdictions, working with translators for accurate translations, and creating and reviewing ballot orders.
Assist with ballot tabulation duties, including election night reporting, post-election audits, hand counts, and preparation of the official election canvass documents.
Assemble election supply cages for every polling place that includes voting materials and needed supplies for Election Day, and assist with delivery to and from the polling places.
Assist with customer service duties via email, phone, face-to-face interactions and public records requests.
Assist with candidate filings, nomination papers, financial disclosure statements along with campaign finance reports.
May transport inmates from County jail to assist with general labor needs.
To promote and adhere to the workplace values of accountability, commitment, and teamwork to help enrich lives beyond expectation.
Maintain absolute confidentiality of work-related issues, customer records, and restricted County information.
Perform other related duties as required.

MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS TO PERFORM WORK:
Associate's degree in relevant field.
Three (3) years of experience in election functions such as voter registration, voting machine preparation, and coordination of poll workers.
Valid Driver's License with an Arizona Driver's License required within 30 days of hire.
Or an equivalent combination of relevant education and/or experience may substitute for the minimum requirements.
 
Special Requirements:
Must successfully complete the Elections Officer Certification class from the State of Arizona within the next training session period from the date of hire.
Must be eligible to vote in Arizona.
Must pass applicable background check.

Knowledge, Skills and Abilities:
Knowledge of Arizona election laws and other pertinent federal, state, and local laws, codes, and regulations, as applied to area of assignment.
Knowledge of county government organization, operations, policies, and procedures.
Knowledge of modern computer technology and software required in the administration of elections and office operations.
Knowledge of records management and retention requirements.
Skill in organizing and coordinating election procedures and multiple deadlines.
Skill in making adjustments and maintaining voting equipment.
Skills in attention to detail and proofreading.
Ability to learn complicated election laws and procedures.
Ability to maintain records and prepare reports.
Ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships with other department staff, management, outside agencies, community groups, and the general public.
 
PHYSICAL DEMANDS:
The work is light and requires exerting up to 20 pounds of force occasionally, and/or up to 10 pounds of force to move objects.  The work also requires the ability to finger, grasp, handle, perform repetitive motion, stoop, lift, hear, speak, and demonstrate mental and visual acuity.
 
WORK ENVIRONMENT:       
Work is performed in an environment making decisions that could lead to major community or organizational consequences if appropriate decisions are not timely or without compliance to election laws and regulations.

Pinal County offers a wide range of employee benefits. Read more about our organizations benefit program.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Describe your experience working in the field of elections.  If not applicable, please type N/A.
        
        
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Describe your comfort level and experience with public speaking and/or teaching.  Typical poll worker training classes have 50-75 people.  If not applicable, please type N/A.
        
        
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Describe your skill level at proofreading and attention to detail.  If not applicable, please type N/A.
        
        
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Describe your skill level with the Microsoft Office suite, especially PowerPoint and Excel.  If not applicable, please type N/A.
        
        
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Are you proficient in any other languages?  If so, which ones? If not applicable, please type N/A.
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        