=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Equipment/Operations Analyst
Salary: $40,694.10 - $40,694.10 YEAR
Location: 876 Skyland Drive -- Sylva, NC, NC, 28779
Employer: Jackson County (NC)
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2023-10-18
Job Type: Permanent, Full-Time
Job Number: 202300176
Department: Board of Elections
Opening Date: 10/19/2023
Closing Date: Continuous
FLSA: Non-Exempt

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

This position performs intermediate skilled technical and operational support work assisting the Director with planning, directing, coordinating, and supervising the elections process and related work as apparent or assigned.

Grade 22

Assists in Implementing changing election laws, coordinating elections, and supervising activities of the office. 
Oversees set up of One-Stop voting sites and network.   
Sets up all E-poll books according to polling place.   
Assists in machine logic and accuracy. 
Administers Campaign Reporting schedule 
Provides requested information such as registration analysis, voting analysis, lists of precinct officials, precinct locations, precinct political committees, and campaign reports to the various candidates, campaign committees, party chairs, news media, and the general public. 
Provides requested information   regarding the North Carolina Campaign Reporting Act to prospective candidates, candidates, elected officials, media, and the general public, provides and notices of required reports to Candidates. 
Assists with audits submitted campaign reports, reviews, and verifies records to ensure that required information is provided and correct.   
Assists with polling sites database  
Prepares campaign reports for public viewing. 
Assists with planning for and coordinating all early voting site, including the set up and close out of all sites.  Assists in training of one-stop workers.  
Assists in canvassing the returns of all elections.  
Explains policies, laws, rules, regulations, and procedures to the public and other inquiring parties. 
Assists with voter registration verification procedures. 
Assists in ADA compliance and Campaign zones at polling places. 
Assists in processing and verifying petitions. 
Assists in preparing and conducting elections.  
Assists with state reporting requirements 
Interacts with elected officials, candidates, the North Carolina Campaign Reporting Office, the general public, and the media. 
Performs other related job duties as assigned

High school diploma or equivalent; two (2) years directly related experience; or Associate’s Degree in paralegal science, business administration, political science, or related field; and directly related experience; or an equivalent combination of education and experience.  
Bachelor’s Degree in paralegal science, business administration, political science, or related field is preferred.  
 
Licenses or Certifications:
Possession of a valid, State of North Carolina driver’s license to operate a motor vehicle. Requirement exists at the time of hire and as a condition of continued employment.  

Knowledge of County and departmental policies and procedures.
Knowledge of computers and job-related software programs.
Knowledge of Chapter 163 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, with specialized knowledge of Articles 20, 21, and 22 f .   
Knowledge of requirements related to registration processes, voting procedures, and of the maintenance and protection of voting registration lists and records. 
Knowledge of NVRA, HAVA, and UOCAVA policies and procedures. 
Knowledge of Federal, State, and County laws and procedures pertaining to elections and the maintenance of Jackson County election records. 
Knowledge of office management techniques, including the ability to organize workflow and coordinate activities.  
Knowledge of effective supervisory practices. 
Skill in prioritizing and organizing work.
Skill in oral and written communication.
Skill in the operation of a computer and correlated software.
Ability to plan and supervise the work of others. 
Ability to work well in a team environment. 
Ability to analyze, interpret, recommend and implement policy and procedural guidelines. 
Ability to learn and apply new skills 
Ability to undertake self-development activities 
Ability to seek increased responsibilities
Ability to communicate effectively in person and by telephone. 
Ability to understand and follow oral and written instructions. 
Ability to answer inquiries independently and coordinate a variety of resources in acquiring information. 
Ability to be impartial, fair, and professional when working with candidates and voters.
Ability to effectively communicate and interact with management, employees, members of the general public and other groups involved in the activities of the County as they relate to the department.

Jackson County provides a robust offering of employee benefits including: employer paid medical and dental benefits, participation in the Local Governmental Employees’ Retirement System, paid leave (vacation, sick, and holiday), Employee Clinic, Wellness program, and supplemental benefit offerings. A full overview of benefits is available at https://www.jacksonnc.org/PDF/Employee/BenefitsSummary.pdf (Download PDF reader)