=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Ballot Processing Supervisor (Program Supervisor I)
Salary: $40.24 - $51.01 HOUR
Location: WA 98057-2906, WA, WA, 98104
Employer: King County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2025-02-12
Job Type: Career Service, Full Time, 40 hrs/week
Job Number: 2025RL23944
Department: KCE - King County Elections
Division: Ballot Processing & Delivery
Opening Date: 02/12/2025
Closing Date: Continuous
FLSA: Non-Exempt
Bargaining Unit: Z3 : KC Personnel Guidelines
Full- or Part-Time: Full Time
Hours/Week: 40 hours/week

BENEFITS:
  • Excellent medical, dental, and vision coverage options: King County provides eligible employees with options, so they can decide what’s best for themselves and their eligible dependents
  • Life and disability insurance: employees are provided basic coverage and given the opportunity to purchase additional insurance for both the employee and eligible dependents
  • Retirement: eligible King County employees may participate in a pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems and a 457(b) deferred-compensation plan
  • Transportation program and ORCA transit pass
  • 12 paid holidays each year plus two personal holidays
  • Generous vacation and paid sick leave
  • Paid parental, family and medical, and volunteer leaves
  • Flexible Spending Account
  • Wellness programs
  • Onsite activity centers
  • Employee Giving Program
  • Employee assistance programs
  • Flexible schedules and telecommuting options, depending on position
  • Training and career development programs

For additional information about employee benefits, visit our
Benefits, Payroll, and Retirement Page
.
This is a general description of the benefits offered to eligible King County employees, and every effort has been made to ensure its accuracy.  If any information on this document conflicts with the provisions of a collective bargaining agreement (CBA), the CBA prevails.
NOTE:
Benefits for Term Limited Temporary (TLT) or Short Term Temporary (STT) positions, including leave eligibility and/or participation in the pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems, will vary based upon the terms and details of the position. Short Term Temporary positions are not eligible for an ORCA transit pass.
For inquiries about the specifics of this position, please contact the recruiter identified on this job posting.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

NOTE: The application period has now closed. Only Priority Placement Program participant applications will be added to the candidate pool.

This is an amazing opportunity to be engaged in the election process!

The Department of Elections is searching for energetic and resourceful professionals who like to "get stuff done". The Ballot Processing Supervisor position in the Elections Department combines an exciting, fast paced environment with the opportunity to cultivate talents and apply a variety of skills. The ideal candidate will thrive in an innovative and fast-paced environment and will not hesitate to roll up both sleeves, work hard, have fun, and get the job done.   
 
This position reports to the Ballot Processing Manager and provides support for the Ballot Processing program, including Ballot Opening and Inspection, Scanning, and Ballot Review as well as supervising results tabulation and posting to the web. This position is also responsible for planning and executing tabulation system Logic & Accuracy tests, audits, system upgrades and recount activities as well as assisting the Ballot Processing Manager with the Observer Program.  The person in this role will supervise between 3 full time staff and up to 200 temporary staff depending on the size of the election or recount.  


Who We Are: King County Elections (KCE) manages voter registration and elections for more than 1.4 million voters in King County, one of the largest vote-by-mail counties in the United States. KCE's mission is to conduct accessible, secure, and accurate elections. As a leader in providing inclusive elections, KCE is focused on core values of accuracy, equity, integrity, service, teamwork, and transparency. The team at KCE is committed to ensuring all King County voters can get registered, cast their ballot, and make their voices heard. Learn more at www.kingcounty.gov/elections.aspx

Who May Apply:  This position is open to the general public and all King County employees.
  
Materials Required to Apply: Applicants must submit a (1) King County Application, (2) Resume, and (3) Letter of Interest. The letter of interest should describe how your education and experience meet the qualifications and have prepared you to perform the essential functions of the job. Applications without the required materials may not be considered for this position.
   
Work Location(s): The work associated with this position will be performed primarily in person at elections headquarters with some telecommuting work as needed. The work site for this position is the Elections Building, 919 SW Grady Way in Renton.


Work Schedule:  This position is subject to the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) and is overtime eligible. The workweek is typically 40 hours per week, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday.  This position is expected to be able to work during sudden changes to schedule that may include early mornings, late nights, weekends, and holidays during designated election times.  Mandatory overtime (including weekends or evenings) will be required during elections and other peak work periods

Manage your areas of responsibility for the Ballot Processing Program and assigned staff.
Coordinate your areas of responsibility for the Ballot Processing Program activities and ensure program deliverables are achieved.
Evaluate progress, effectiveness, and results of your areas of responsibility for the Ballot Processing Program.
Represent your areas of responsibility for the Ballot Processing Program to both internal and external customers.
Plan, organize, schedule and coordinate work activities for your areas of responsibility for the Ballot Processing Program to ensure work quality and production goals are met.
Prepare work schedule and staffing plans and approve leaves for your direct reports.
Provide timely updates on projects to the Ballot Processing Manager including current progress, roadblocks, and ask clarifying questions as needed.
Develop direct reports, including motivating, coaching, conducting performance evaluations and, if needed, recommending disciplinary actions to the Ballot Processing Manager.  
Provide guidance and technical assistance to staff, solve problems occurring within the group, and resolve customer complaints.
Recommend changes to procedures and guidelines affecting your areas of responsibility for the Ballot Processing Program, draft revisions and new procedures and assist in implementation.
Ensure compliance with all legal requirements for your areas of responsibility and enforce established security protocols and the overall safety of elections records, equipment and staff. 
Research and analyze legislation and regulations affecting Ballot Processing to determine impact on staffing and election administration. 
Develop, plan and coordinate projects for your areas of responsibility for the Ballot Processing Program and act as a liaison with internal and external staff.

Knowledge and skill in supervising, motivating, and coaching professional level support staff to create a positive work culture and where people are motivated to help the organization achieve its goals. 
Demonstrated skill in managing and prioritizing multiple shifting priorities; ability to work under deadlines while being flexible to changing needs.
Demonstrated skill in problem-solving, conflict resolution, negotiating and decision making.
Demonstrated skill and experience presenting information to large diverse audiences. 
Demonstrated ability maintaining a professional demeanor and providing timely and reliable customer service to internal and external audiences. 
Demonstrated skill in handling stressful situations effectively while maintaining composure. 
Experience maintaining confidentiality, while sharing the right information with the appropriate people. 
Ability to work cooperatively with a diverse set of individuals in a team environment. 
Demonstrated proficiency with the use of Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Word, email and electronic record filing systems to create correspondence and spreadsheets, send and receive information, access and analyze data, and develop reports.
Demonstrated ability to receive feedback with grace and introspection and incorporate it into making meaningful changes. 
Strong interpersonal skills and a commitment to equity and social justice. 
Demonstrated ability to learn quickly when facing new situations and opportunities.
Demonstrated ability to deal comfortably with the uncertainty of change.
Demonstrated ability to approach tasks with energy and a sense of urgency, take on new opportunities, and handle tough situations.
Demonstrated skill in project management.

Desirable Qualifications:

Experience working in elections.
Knowledge of county or local government policies and practices. 
Experience managing complex change in operational organizations.

Travel to work locations throughout King County with limited or no public transportation services is required. A valid Washington State Driver's License is required to operate King County vehicles.
  
Union Representation:  This position is not represented.
  
Hybrid Work Environment 
The work associated with this position will be performed primarily onsite with some telecommuting work as needed. Employees must reside in Washington state and within a reasonable distance to their King County worksite to respond to workplace reporting requirements.
  
Employees will be provided with a County issued laptop and must maintain a workspace with an internet connection (access may be supplemented in some situations) where they can reliably perform work and remain available and responsive during scheduled work hours. King County has a robust collection of tools and resources to support working remotely. The individual selected for this opportunity will be joining an innovative and progressive team that is redefining how we work in the department's hybrid environment.  
    
Forbes recently named King County as one of Washington State's best employers.
   
Together, with leadership and our employees, we're changing the way government delivers service and winning national recognition as a model of excellence. Are you ready to make a difference? Come join the team dedicated to serving one of the nation's best places to live, work and play.
    
Guided by our "True North", we are making King County a welcoming community where every person can thrive. We value diversity, inclusion and belonging in our workplace and workforce. To reach this goal we are committed to workforce equity. Equitable recruiting, support, and retention is how we will obtain the highest quality workforce in our region; a workforce that shares and will help advance our guiding principles--we are one team; we solve problems; we focus on the customer; we drive for results; we are racially just; we respect all people; we lead the way; and we are responsible stewards. We encourage people of all backgrounds and identities to apply, including Native American and people of color, immigrants, refugees, women, LGBTQ+, people living with disabilities, and veterans.
    
King County is an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Employer
No person is unlawfully excluded from employment opportunities based on race, color, religion, national origin, sex (including gender identity, sexual orientation and pregnancy), age, genetic information, disability, veteran status, or other protected class. Our EEO policy applies to all employment actions, including but not limited to recruitment, hiring, selection for training, promotion, transfer, demotion, layoff, termination, rates of pay or other forms of compensation.
    
To Apply 
If you are interested in pursuing this position, please follow the application instructions carefully. If you need this announcement in an alternate language or format, would like to request accommodation or assistance in the application or assessment process or if you have questions please contact your recruiter listed on this job announcement.
  
For more information regarding this recruitment, please contact: 
   Reeshema Lewis
   Sr. HR Business Partner
   Email:  Reeshema.Lewis@kingcounty.gov 