=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Technician
Salary: $22.81 - $30.56 HOUR
Location: Salem, OR, OR, 97309
Employer: Marion County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2025-02-19
Job Type: Full-time Regular
Job Number: 043-2025-1
Department: Clerk's Office
Division: Elections
Opening Date: 02/19/2025
Closing Date: 3/4/2025 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Non-Exempt
Bargaining Unit: 06

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Marion County is seeking a motivated individual to serve as an Election Technician. In this critical role, you will oversee the daily management and administration of voter registration files. As an Election Technician, you will play a key role in facilitating voter access, maintaining election integrity, and ensuring smooth election operations. If you are passionate about elections and public service, we encourage you to apply and join our team in making a meaningful impact.

GENERAL STATEMENT OF DUTIES
Provides assistance to the Elections and Recording Manager. Assumes primary responsibility for specific technical and operational functions of the elections process for Marion County. Manages multiple tasks in compliance with state and federal laws, rules, and regulations. Does related work as required.

SUPERVISION RECEIVED
Works under the supervision of the Elections and Recording Manager, who assigns work, sets goals and reviews work for accuracy and conformance to department standards and laws governing the elections process.

SUPERVISION EXERCISED
Supervision of employees is not a responsibility of positions in this class; however, exercises lead direction, and trains regular and temporary employees, and election board workers.

Administers the training and daily management of the voter registration files (active, inactive canceled), all supporting files i.e. military/long-term voters, absentee voters and directs required mailings per the National Voter Registration Act (NVRA) of 1993 and the Help America Vote Act (HAVA) of 2005.
Provides training of temporary workers in data entry and maintenance of the voter registration records. This includes but is not limited to: processing courier and U.S. mail per NVRA/HAVA; data entry, proof reading, filing, imaging and, preparations for voter mailings per NVRA /HAVA that occur prior to and after each election.
Manages ballot flow during an election from pick-up at the post office through opening the envelopes. Signature verification procedures with regard to returned ballots and signature petition sheets.
Greets public, provides phone and counter work, interprets election law and rules for candidates and the public.
Manages the distributing and receiving of registrations cards; answers questions concerning registration.
Oversees the in-office voting i.e. issuing of ballots, mailing of ballots, receiving of ballots.
Oversees and directs the ballot sorting operation and process.
Distributes and explains election specific cumulative and canvass reports.
Certifies copies of voter registration profiles and issues precinct memorandum cards.
Determines, for any given address in the County, appropriate voting jurisdictions.
Accepts, reviews and processes candidate, measure and voter pamphlet filings for all special districts in the County.
Provides forms and assistance for absentee voters.
Interprets election laws and Administrative Rules in regard to citizens and districts for candidacy filings, recalls, initiatives, referendums, measure filings. 
Manages the special district files and acts as a liaison with the districts.
Produces and updates documentation on district's board of directors.
Manages required election specific publications for districts.
Prepares mailing to districts, including cities of current election information and candidate filing, measure filing and voter pamphlet filing forms.
Works with post office with mailing deadlines for ballots and voter pamphlets.
Coordinates setup and administration of county drop sites, including the drive-thru(s) downtown. This includes working with different jurisdictions and providing security for each site. Manages the delivery of equipment and the pick-up of ballots.
Provides assignments and supervision of temporary employees.
Assists with reports - Analyzes and coordinates report needs for elections office and customers.
Coordinates orders with deadlines, other vendors, other campaigns, etc.
Knowledgeable in assisting disabled voters by providing Alternative Format Ballots and the use of the Accessible Computer Station voting equipment (Federally mandated program).
Assists in production of large print and visually impaired ballots.
Performs miscellaneous tasks including but not limited to, payroll for both regular employees and election board workers, scheduling of meetings, maintaining files, routine correspondence, preparation of election supplies, election coding, ballot counting, and interacting with other county departments on behalf of department.

Marion County offers a generous benefits package to regular employees working 50% or more of the regularly scheduled work week and their eligible dependents.  Temporary employees and part-time regular employees working less than 50% of the regularly scheduled work week are not eligible for benefits. Most regular positions in this classification are represented by Marion County Employees Association (MCEA).   For a summary of benefits, click here.  For a complete and detailed overview of the MCEA benefits package, click here, and select MCEA Benefits from the left menu or Marion County Employees Association (MCEA) from the page links.  Regular and temporary employees are represented by MCEA.Salary and benefits are subject to union contract negotiations and may change as a result.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        To receive credit for your supplemental questions, your answers must be supported by details in the education and/or work experience section of your application form.   Do you understand this statement?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Indicate how many years of full-time, responsible office work experience you have.  (One year of work experience is equal to 2080 hours.)
        
        
                Less than 1 year
                1 year to less than 2 years
                2 years to less than 3 years
                3 years to less than 4 years
                4 years or more
                None of the above
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Indicate how many years of full-time elections work experience you have.  (One year of work experience is equal to 2080 hours.)
        
        
                Less than 1 year
                1 year to less than 2 years
                2 years to less than 3 years
                3 years to less than 4 years
                4 years or more
                None of the above
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Please specify the place(s) of employment where you gained the work experience listed in the two previous questions.  Write NA in the box if this question does not apply to you.  Experience listed in this answer must be supported by the work experience section of your application.  "See resume" is not an acceptable answer.
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        