=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Election Logistics Specialist
Salary: $27.82 - $36.18 HOUR
Location: West Olive, MI, MI, 49460
Employer: Ottawa County
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2023-09-26
Job Type: Full-Time
Job Number: 60500001
Department: County Clerk / Register of Deeds
Opening Date: 09/27/2023
Closing Date: 11/8/2023 4:14 PM Eastern
FLSA: Exempt
Bargaining Unit: Unclassified

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Under the direction of the County Clerk, Chief Deputy County Clerk and Elections Supervisor, coordinates and administers all early voting operations held within the county. Ensures substantive and procedural compliance with all federal, state, and local statutes and regulations governing elections. Coordinates and manages the staging of early voting sites, develops and manages the communication plan, assists with the development and administration of the budget for early voting, and aids with the management of nine early days of voting and post-election reconciliation duties. Provides technical support for all cities and townships within Ottawa County. Performs a variety of functions required to ensure fair, free, accurate and cost-effective elections.

This is a full-time benefited position working out of Fillmore complex in West Olive, Michigan. Travel to other County locations as needed.

Position previously titled: Early Voting Specialist 

Develops, designs, and implements the early voting plans for state, and federal elections in accordance with the Michigan Constitution Article II § 4 l(m). Negotiates with municipalities and prepares early voting plans and contracts for services and submits these plans to the Michigan Secretary of State Bureau of Elections Division for approval.
Works with city and township clerks, facility directors, special event coordinators, and superintendents to survey, inspect and secure the use of facilities throughout the nine-day duration of early voting. Ensures and verifies that all facilities meet ADA requirements. Designs early voting facility indoor and outdoor layouts for the public to gain easy access to the facility as well as directs the set up and tear down of facilities, supplies and equipment.
Assist with election inspector and troubleshooter recruitment, employment with Ottawa County, and assists with conducting election worker certification training. Indirectly supervises upwards of forty temporary employees before, during and after the early voting period.
Responsible for maintaining the countywide voter list, including monitoring the death records and voter cancellation notices to local clerks in the Qualified Voter File (QVF), as well as running the National Change of Address (NCOA) list for each jurisdiction and mailing cancellation notices as a result of NCOA information.
Creates and maintains a detailed communication campaign for voters across the county relating to the administration of early voting and election security, including but not limited to early voting site location, early voting hours and how early voting is conducted.
 Oversees and maintains all early voting election equipment in Ottawa County. Provides public accuracy testing of voting equipment for all early voting sites. Handles the logistics for transportation of election equipment to and from the early voting sites and secures that equipment for storage. Trains and supervises staff to provide emergency maintenance on election equipment before and during early voting election days.
 Negotiates pricing for and orders all early voting election supplies and operating supplies for voting equipment, as well as all ballot orders for each early voting site. Distributes all ballots, supplies and materials to each early voting site.
 Downloads the electronic poll book information and updates EPB laptop software prior to the beginning of early voting.
 Supervises the preparation and execution of daily statistical reports and voting rosters for each day of early voting to be uploaded on the County's website for voter transparency.
 Develops, designs and implements end of day procedures in accordance with statute throughout the duration of early voting, including the securing of all equipment and ballots for each early voting site.
Oversees and manages the receiving board operations for the close of early voting on election night of each state or federal election.
 Maintains regular communication and contact with city and township clerks contracting with the county for early day voting services. Provides support to the jurisdiction clerks appointed to work the early voting sites throughout the duration of early voting.
Provides oversight to the temporary Election Logistics Assistant in accordance with County policies and procedures and all applicable statutes and regulations governing early voting.
All other duties as assigned.

Bachelor's degree or at least 3 years relevant experience in public administration, business administration, business information systems, political science, or other relevant field. At least two years of elections experience, including at least six months as a lead worker or supervisor, or an equivalent combination of education and experience.

Required Knowledge and Skills:

Thorough working knowledge of the Michigan Election Law (Act 116 of 1954, as amended).
Good working knowledge of the Fannie Lou Hamer, Rosa Parks and Coretta Scott King Voting Rights Reauthorization and Amendments Act of 2006; the Help America Vote Act (Public Law 107-252); National Voter Registration Act of 1993; The Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act; the Military and Overseas Voting Act, Michigan Compiled Law Chapter 168, and the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1974.
Good working knowledge of adult education and training principles and practices.
Working knowledge of the principles and practices of supervision.
Good working knowledge of bookkeeping and accounting principles and practices.
Thorough working knowledge of a variety of voting equipment and the ability to program operating software and troubleshoot software and hardware issues.
Computer literacy and a thorough working knowledge of word processing, spreadsheet and database management applications.
Good working knowledge of document imaging systems and protocols and practices.
Good time management and organizational skills.
Good verbal and written communications skills.
Excellent interpersonal and human relations skills.
Ability to interact positively and professionally with local unit clerks, facility directors, registered and prospective voters, prospective candidates for office, petition filers, voting machine vendors and helpdesk technicians, operating supply vendors, members of the Board of Canvassers, community and business representatives, and members of the general public with widely divergent socio-economic and cultural backgrounds and varying levels of communication skills.

Physical Requirements: 
Must have sufficient visual acuity, with or without corrective lenses, to visually inspect printed ballots for errors and verify readouts from optical scanners and tabulators.
Must have sufficient manual dexterity to code test decks and operate keypads.
Must have sufficient strength and dexterity to lift voting equipment weighing approximately 40 lbs. with or without mechanical or other assistance.

Working Conditions: 
Work is generally performed in a normal office environment. Equipment, ballots and supplies are delivered to local jurisdictions and individual polling sites located throughout the county and Election Logistics Specialist must provide his or her own transportation between sites.

Disclaimer:
This job description is not designed to cover or contain a comprehensive listing of activities, duties or responsibilities that are required of the employee. Duties, responsibilities, and activities may change, or new ones may be assigned at any time with or without notice.


Ottawa County is an Equal Opportunity Employer 

This position is benefited and is subject to the Unclassified group manual. Ottawa County offers a wide range of benefits to support you in your career. View the Unclassified Benefits Summary (Download PDF reader) for more information.The current Unclassified group manual can be viewed here (Download PDF reader). The 2023 Ottawa County Universal Wage Scale can be found here (Download PDF reader).  


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Please describe in detail your experience working in an environment that requires strong attention to detail and accuracy.
        
        
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Describe your experience working as part of a team. What are some things you enjoy about working on a team and what are some challenges?
        
        
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        How do you keep yourself organized and focused when you have tight deadlines to adhere to?
        
        
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Describe yourself in three character traits. How would those character traits contribute to a team?
        
        
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Have you worked in a large, customer service focused operation? Please describe your experience.
        
        
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Please describe your interest and experience in elections
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        