=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Analyst (Analyst I) – Limited Duration
Salary: $93,516.80 - $114,982.40 YEAR
Location: 1221 SW 4th Ave, OR, OR, 97204
Employer: City of Portland
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2023-10-02
Job Type: Limited Duration
Job Number: 2023-01433
Bureau: Office of the City Auditor
Opening Date: 10/02/2023
Closing Date: 10/16/2023 11:59 PM Pacific

BENEFITS:
  • Health Care (Medical, Vision and Dental)
  • Carrot Fertility
  • Wellness Benefits
  • Life Insurance
  • Long-term disability coverage to eligible employees and their families.
  • Employee Assistance Plan
  • Flexible Spending Accounts
  • Retirement
  • Oregon Public Employees Retirement System (PERS), including contributions to the PERS IAP plan paid by employer
  • Family Medical Leave
  • City Paid Parental Leave

AND SO MANY MORE!
Benefits may vary depending on bargaining unit and employment status.
Click here to review the many different benefits the City of Portland offers
.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

The City Auditor’s Office is seeking a professional that is curious, analytical, and knowledgeable about strong democratic policies to assist in Portland’s transition to a new electoral system in 2024. This position will be critical to administering City elections procedures according to City charter, code, and state law during a time of change and growth for Portland’s elections. While this position is listed as limited duration through December 2024, the Office expects to make the position permanent in the next budget cycle.

As the sixth elected official in the City of Portland, the Auditor is independent of City Council and accountable only to the public. The Auditor’s Office promotes open and accountable government by providing impartial reviews and investigations, access to public information, and services for City government and the public. It employs nearly 40 staff members working in four divisions.

This position joins three elections staff in the City Elections Office and reports to the City Elections Officer. The Office oversees the city elections processes such as ballot qualification, petition and measure management, and elections results certification to the City Council. The Office also carries out services under the umbrella of Campaign Finance and Lobbying Regulations, including investigations and enforcement procedures. The Office provides information and training to candidates and voters and partners with other elections jurisdictions and City Offices to carryout open, accountable, and transparent City Elections. Ahead of the 2024 elections cycle, the Elections Office is working closely with the City’s Transition Team to carryout public education to inform voters of the 2022 voter approved city government reforms, including a new system of ranked choice voting and council election by geographic districts. The Elections Office will lead the implementation of the new system of elections and candidate education.

Responsibilities of the Elections Analyst include:


Assisting elections customers with filings, policies, and related compliance questions; 
Exercising strong non-partisan decision-making and judgment at all times;
Collecting information required for ballot qualification and making recommendations;
Creating and delivering accessible information such as website content and giving presentations about elections, lobbying, and campaign finance; 
Drafting and researching state and local public policies and guidance;
Working collaboratively with other City Offices, elected officials, legal professionals, and elections jurisdictions; 
Conducting administrative investigations; 
Collecting and analyzing data;
Applying a racial equity lens to projects and tasks and centering historically underserved communities in elections work;
Creating administrative processes and procedures such as project planning, documentation, and process improvement; 
Demonstrating sound judgment, tact, and discretion in dealing with politically sensitive situations;
Translating complex information into plain language;
Communicating orally and in writing to a wide variety of individuals; and
Conducting community outreach to Citywide and culturally specific groups.
Successful candidates will have:

Knowledge of local government operations, administrative rules, and relevant local and state election law; 
Demonstrated ability to work alongside staff in a positive, supportive, and reflective team environment; 
Expertise in creating clear, concise, and comprehensive reports, correspondence, forms, and other documents involving administrative and technical data and to communicate complex topics to non-technical audiences;
Ability to communicate clearly, logically, and persuasively, both orally and in writing to a wide variety of audiences in a political environment;
Skills in customer service, in particular serving upset or otherwise difficult to serve customers with respect, patience, and empathy;
Ability to create and maintain relationships with community organizations led by and for communities of color and community leaders representing historically disenfranchised communities; 
Proficiency with a variety of communication formats and platforms, including collaborative and creative tools;  
Skills in data analytics and visualization tools; 
A commitment to government accountability and transparency.
The Auditor’s Office values a diverse workforce and a culture of equity and inclusion in delivering public services and everyday interactions in the workplace. The Office encourages candidates with experience working with a broad range of individuals and diverse communities to apply.

Candidates must have at a minimum any combination of education and experience equivalent to the following:


Coursework from an accredited college or university in public administration, political science, communications, quantitative methods, or a related field; AND
One year of professional and responsible analytical or related work experience.  
PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS:
The most qualified candidates will have one or more of the following preferred qualifications:

Experience in a state or local elections or ethics office (working with candidates, campaign finance, or lobbying regulations)
Experience conducting administrative investigations 
TO APPLY:
Submit two documents:

(1) A resume
List professional and relevant volunteer experience; education and training; and the time periods for each. If you speak more than one language or have specialized skills, please list them. 
 
(2) Supplemental Questions
Describe how you meet the following minimum qualifications, which are required to be successful in this position. Wherever possible, connect items in your resume and provide examples to demonstrate how you meet these qualifications. It is advised that you use the numbered list below to ensure you respond to each item. Skipping any of the items will disqualify your application from further consideration, so please complete your supplemental questions with care. Your application materials (resume and supplemental questions) should not exceed a total of five pages.
 
Question 1: Tell us about a time you conducted analysis or research about a new policy or subject area to solve a problem or provide a solution.  
 
Question 2: Describe your experience creating and presenting complex information to a variety of audiences in a simplified and accessible format.
 
Question 3: Provide an example of your experience working in a politically sensitive environment and how you balanced work responsibilities and professional relationships.  
 
Question 4: Choose one of the following and tell us about one of your experiences: 

as a member of a historically underrepresented group participating in government decision-making; 
ensuring equitable operations or program outcomes; making workplaces and/or public spaces more inclusive; or 
exposure to racial inequities and actions you took to help resolve them. 
If your experiences are different from those listed and you have a commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion, please explain how you will manifest that commitment in this position. 
Question 5: If you meet either of the preferred qualifications, please briefly describe how and connect your answers with items in your resume.

Experience in a state or local elections or ethics office (working with candidates, campaign finance, or lobbying regulations);
Experience conducting administrative investigations.

Applicants must submit their resume, cover letter, and writing exercise through the City of Portland's online application system no later than 11:59 p.m. on the closing date. Emailed, mailed, or faxed applications will not be accepted. Your application materials (resume and supplemental questions) should not exceed a total of five pages. Please do not include materials not requested.

Recruitment Timeline (subject to change)
Application period: 10/2 -10/16
Applications reviewed: 10/17-10/19
First interviews: 10/20-10/25
Second interviews: 10/27-11/2
Job offer: week of 11/6





Salary range/Pay equity:  Per the Oregon State Pay Equity Law, individual salaries are determined based on the experience and education listed in a candidate’s resume/application. It is strongly encouraged to include any transferable experience (paid or unpaid regardless of how recent) to ensure an offer is reflective of all directly related and equivalent experience.
   
Language pay differential: Auditor’s Office employees who speak one or more languages in addition to English, may be eligible to receive additional compensation if they qualify and use their language skills to assist the community.

Employee benefits: The City of Portland is committed to offering medical, dental, vision, basic life, and long-term disability coverage that provides quality care, support and value to eligible employees and their family members. Additional benefits such as flexible spending accounts, supplemental life insurance and employee assistance program coverage are available to ensure employees have the appropriate tools to safeguard themselves and their family. The City of Portland participates in PERS, the Oregon Public Employee Retirement System.  Find more information on the City of Portland's benefits here: Benefits Information | The City of Portland, Oregon.

Civil Service: This position is in the Classified Service and subject to Civil Service provisions. It also is subject to the Human Resources Administrative Rules for the Auditor’s Office, City Charter, and Code.

Work status: Non-citizen applicants must be authorized to work in the United States at the time of application.

Work location: The position is based in City Hall, 1221 SW 4th Ave, Rm 310. The Auditor’s Office is currently operating in a hybrid schedule of in-person and remote work.

Veteran’s preference: If you are requesting Veteran's Preference, attach a copy of your DD214 and/or Veteran's Administration letter stating your disability to your profile (if applicable), as well as checking the box identifying yourself as a Veteran. You must request Veteran's Preference AND include a copy of your documentation for each recruitment you apply for. Veteran's Preference documentation must be submitted no later than 11:59 PM on the closing date of this recruitment.

Equal employment opportunity:  It is the policy of the City of Portland that no person shall be discriminated against based on race, religion, color, sex, marital status, family status, national origin, age, mental or physical disability, protected veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity or source of income. The City values diversity and encourages everyone who is interested in employment with the City to apply.

Disability, Pregnancy, and Religious Accommodations: If you identify as a person with a disability, are pregnant or nursing, or observe a religious practice(s) and would like to request a reasonable accommodation when applying for this job, contact Administrative Specialist Andrew Bryans at Andrew.Bryans@portlandoregon.gov.

Technical assistance: If you have questions about how to apply or require any assistance in submitting your application, please contact Administrative Specialist Andrew Bryans at Andrew.Bryans@portlandoregon.gov.

For more information about the Auditor’s Office: https://www.portlandoregon.gov/auditor/