=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Voter Service Manager
Salary: $70,346.38 - $112,372.26 YEAR
Location: 80120, CO, CO, 80120
Employer: Arapahoe County
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2023-11-14
Job Type: Full-time
Job Number: 05535
Department: Clerk and Recorder's Office
Division: Elections
Opening Date: 11/15/2023
Closing Date: 11/15/2023 10:15 PM Mountain

BENEFITS:
  • Medical, Dental, and Vision Insurance
  • Life and Supplemental Life Insurance
  • Short and Long Term Disability
  • Mandatory Pension Plan
  • Deferred Compensation Plan
  • Pre-paid Legal Services
  • Vacation and Sick Leaves
  • Holiday pay
  • Training and Educational Reimbursement Opportunities

For a more detailed listing of our benefit programs, click on the MENU link on the left and then Benefits Summary.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

**Please note that this position has been re-opened.  If you have already applied, we have your application on file for review and you will not be able to apply again.




The Voter Service Manager performs managerial level administrative, supervisory, and professional work in carrying out a comprehensive public facing service operation. This position specifically supervises the Voter Services team, which includes voter registration maintenance, GIS/Address Library, public information reporting and the election phone bank.


NOTE:
This position may be eligible for some remote work once in-person training is successfully completed. 

The following duty statements are illustrative of the essential functions of the job and do not include other non essential or marginal duties that may be required.  The County reserves the right to modify or change the duties or essential functions of the job at any time.

Manages the daily operation of the Voter Services team which may include but is not limited to, legislative guidance, budget guidance, business process implementation, data management, voter registration, voter information, address mapping-tracking, election mail processing, coordination with external and internal stakeholders, and overseeing staff.
 Manages, and ensures statutory compliance of voter service functions including voter records, National Change of Address, Address Confidentiality Program, confidential voters, Curbside Ballot Program, Ballot Track Program, Department of Corrections registration maintenance, Colorado Open Records Act, signature verification, voter-ballot curing and any and all similar voter services. 
 Serves as the project manager, and primary point of contact for voter communication, SCORE voter database, public record requests, State Agencies, and all voter services. 
 Responsible for the evaluations of the Voter Services team as directed by the Election Director. 
 Informs the Elections Director on the status of projects and/or changes within Voter Services. 
 Attends association and professional meetings to enhance and maintain knowledge of trends and developments in elections, as determined necessary by the Elections Director, Deputy Clerk and Recorder and/or Clerk and Recorder.
 Technical expert of Voter Services team software, business processes, statutes, rules, and regulations.  
 Voter registration and customer service subject matter expert.
 Responsible for overall timekeeping, coverage and leave within the Voter Services team.

REQUIREMENTS:
Skills, Abilities and Competencies:


Leadership- Creates a vision or goal and communicates it in a way that motivates others to implement 
Organized - Can marshal resources (people, funding, material, and support) to get things done 
Service First - Improve customer experience; enhance quality of life; improve trust in government 
Teamwork - Cooperates with others to achieve goals and overall work objectives 
Adaptability - Responds to changing circumstances by being innovative and altering behavior  
 
Behavioral Competencies:
   

 Accountability                  Accessibility                    Inclusivity                    Integrity  

 
 Education and Experience:
•   Any equivalent combination of education and work experience that satisfy the requirements of the job;
•    At least 5 years of relevant experience; and/or 
•    A bachelor’s degree in public administration, Organizational Leadership or related field
 
PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS: 
•    Any Continued Education and/or relevant Certifications.
•    Bilingual and/or American Sign Language
•    At least 3 years of Election experience.
•    At least 5 years of Government experience.
•    At least 5 years of supervisory/management experience.

Pre-Employment Additional Requirements: 

Must successfully pass pre-employment testing which includes an acceptable motor vehicle record (MVR) and background check. 
Security clearance required: will require fingerprinting and a Colorado Bureau of Investigation (CBI) background check

Post-Employment Requirements:

Active participation in the Colorado County Clerk Association 
Must be able to work nights and weekends based on business need 
Work locations and facilities are subject to change based on business need 



WORK ENVIRONMENT:

Work is generally confined to a standard office environment.
 
PHYSICAL DEMANDS:
The following are some of the physical demands commonly associated with this position.
Spends 70% of the time sitting and 30% of the time either standing or walking.
Occasionally lifts, carries, pulls or pushes up to 20 lbs.
Occasionally uses cart, dolly, or other equipment to carry in excess of 20 lbs.
Occasionally climbs, stoops, kneels, balances, reaches, crawls and crouches while performing office or work duties.
Verbal and auditory capacity enabling constant interpersonal communication through automated devices, such as telephones, radios, and similar; and in public meetings and personal interactions.
Constant use of eye, hand and finger coordination enabling the use of automated office machinery or equipment.
Visual capacity enabling constant use of computer or other work related equipment.

Definitions:
Occasionally: Activity exists less than 1/3 of the time.
Frequently: Activity exists between 1/3 and 2/3 of the time.
Constantly: Activity exists more than 2/3 of the time.

Toll Free Applicant Technical Support:  If you experience technical difficulty with the NEOGOV system (i.e. uploading or attaching documents to your online application), call NEOGOV technical support at 855-524-5627.  Helpful hints: if you are having difficulty uploading or attaching documents to your application, first, ensure your documents are PDF or Microsoft Word files, and second, close the document before you attempt uploading (attaching) it.

 

* Arapahoe County does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, disability, genetic information, sexual orientation or any other status protected under the law. It is our intention that all qualified applicants be given equal opportunity in any term, condition, or privilege of employment and that selection decisions are based on job-related factors. Arapahoe County is committed to making employment accessible to persons with disabilities.

** In accordance with Senate Bill 23-058, applicants understand that Arapahoe County will not request or require the applicant to include their age, date of birth, or date of attendance/graduation date on the initial application. Applicants understand that Arapahoe County can request or require an individual to provide documentation including copies of certification, transcripts, and other materials created by a third party. The applicant understands that the applicant can redact, if they so choose, information that identifies age, date of birth, or dates of attendance/graduation from an educational institution on those requested/required certification, transcripts and other materials created by a third party. 

Toll Free Applicant Technical Support:  If you experience technical difficulty with the NEOGOV system (i.e. uploading or attaching documents to your online application), call NEOGOV technical support at 855-524-5627.  Helpful hints: if you are having difficulty uploading or attaching documents to your application, first, ensure your documents are PDF or Microsoft Word files, and second, close the document before you attempt uploading (attaching) it. 

As a Regular Full-Time employee at Arapahoe County Government, you are eligible for benefits such as:	Medical, Dental, and Vision Insurance	Life and Supplemental Life Insurance	Short and Long Term Disability	Mandatory Pension Plan	Deferred Compensation Plan	Pre-paid Legal Services	Vacation and Sick Leaves	Holiday pay	Training and Educational Reimbursement OpportunitiesFor a more detailed listing of our benefit programs, click on the MENU link on the left and then Benefits Summary.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Choose the response that best describes your educational background.
        
        
                High School Graduate or GED equivalent
                Some college classes
                Associates Degree
                Associates Degree in administration, Organizational Leadership or related field
                Bachelor's Degree
                Bachelor's Degree in administration, Organizational Leadership or related field
                Master's Degree
                Master's Degree in administration, Organizational Leadership or related field
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Please choose the response that best describes your years of Election-related experience.
        
        
                Less than 1 year of experience
                1 year to less than 2 years of experience
                2 year to less than 3 years of experience
                3 year to less than 4 years of experience
                4 or more years of experience
                5 or more years of experience
                6 or more years of experience
                7 or more years of experience
                8 or more years of experience
                9 or more years of experience
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Please give a description in detail of your experience working in Elections.
        
        
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        This position requires subject matter expert level experience in voter registration and customer service.  Please describe in detail your experience specifically as it relates to voter registration, voter information, address mapping-tracking, election mail processing, and coordination with external and internal stakeholders.
        
        
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Please choose the answer that best describes your years of supervisory experience.
        
        
                No Experience
                Less than 1 year of experience
                1 year to less than 2 years of experience
                2 years to less than 3 years of experience
                3 years to less than 4 years of experience
                4 or more years of experience
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        This position has direct responsibility and supervision of the entire Voter Service Team.  Please describe in detail your previous supervisory experience as it relates directly to this position. Specifically, describe your experience with writing and delivering annual performance reviews for direct reports, monitoring work performance, writing and delivering corrective action documentation, selection/hiring/onboarding, coaching and mentoring, etc.
        
        
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Do you possess bilingual language skills?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        If so, what languages?
        
        
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        Please list any certifications (and dates received) that are relevant to this position.
        
        
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        Do you have a current, valid driver's license?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

11

    

    
        How many moving traffic violations have you been cited for in the past two years?
        
        
                Less than 3 violations
                3 or 4 violations
                5 or more violations
        
    


    
        

12

    

    
        Have you received eight or more points within the past twelve months or twelve or more points within the past twenty-four months against your driving record?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

13

    

    
        In the past three years, have you had your driver's license revoked or suspended (for driving related offences)?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        