ADMINISTRATOR II
Recruitment #23-002587-0053
| Department | SBE General Administration |
|---|---|
| Date Opened | 6/22/2023 1:28:00 PM |
| Filing Deadline | 7/6/2023 11:59:00 PM |
| Salary | $59,608.00 - $92,290.00/year |
| Employment Type |
Full-Time
|
| HR Analyst | Christina Lohr |
| Work Location |
Anne Arundel
|
| Telework Eligible | Yes |
GRADE
LOCATION OF POSITION
Main Purpose of Job
POSITION DUTIES
When functioning as Administrators overseeing or coordinating agency operations:
Directs or assists in the direction of the daily operations of a unit or division;
Plans, organizes and supervises the work of subordinate staff, which may include professional, technical, administrative or clerical workers;
Evaluates efficiency of operations and develops, revises and recommends new policies, standards, and workflow procedures, using new technology where appropriate;
Interprets and applies or oversees the application of agency policies, rules and regulations to accomplish the work of the unit or division;
Implements new regulations and policies as directed by upper management;
Sets goals and deadlines and oversees the workflow of the unit;
Coordinates workflow with administrators of other units in areas of work spanning multiple units;
Coordinates leave and staff coverage of unit or division;
Performs other related duties.
Â
When functioning as Special Assistants to Executives:
Researches and compiles information as directed by the executive and may recommend innovative ideas or methods of doing business;
Reviews, evaluates and assists in the development of agency policies and programs;
Promotes the work of the agency through frequent contact with interested groups and individuals;
Makes recommendations to upper management and executives concerning new or revised legislation affecting the agency;
Develops and recommends new standards, methods of operation and new technology to accomplish the mission of the agency;
May work on sensitive and confidential projects requiring discretion and judgment in the release of information;
May act as the representative of the executive in meetings and conferences;
May act as a liaison between the executive and agency units;
May act as team leader for special projects;
Performs other related duties.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS
Education: Graduation from an accredited high school or possession of a high school equivalency certificate.
Experience: Five years of administrative staff or professional work.
Notes:
1. Candidates may substitute 30 credit hours from an accredited college or university for each year up to four years of the required experience.
2. Candidates may substitute the possession of a Bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university and one year of experience in administrative staff or professional work for the required experience.
3. Candidates may substitute the possession of a Master's degree from an accredited college or university for the required experience.
4. Candidates may substitute U.S. Armed Forces military service experience as a commissioned officer involving staff work related to the administration of rules, regulations, policy, procedures and processes, or overseeing or coordinating unit operations or functioning as a staff assistant to a higher ranking commissioned officer on a year-for- year basis for the required experience.
DESIRED OR PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS
Preference will be given to applicantsÂ who possess the following preferred qualification(s).Â Include clear and specific information on your application regardingÂ your qualifications.
1. Experience with how elections are conducted in Maryland or another state;
2. Experience with Maryland's process for adopting and amending the Code of Maryland
Regulations;
3. Experience coordinating activities performed by other individuals or third parties (e.g.,
vendors, coalitions);
4. Project management experience;
5. Ability to work in a fast-paced, deadline driven environment;
6. Experience in responding to inquiries and concerns of the public;
7. Law degree.
LICENSES, REGISTRATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS
SELECTION PROCESS
Please make sure that you provide sufficient information on your application to show that you meet the qualifications for this recruitment. All information concerning your qualifications must be submitted by the closing date.Â We will not consider information submitted after this date.Â Successful candidates will be ranked as Best Qualified, Better Qualified, or Qualified and placed on theÂ eligible (employment) list for at least one year.
EXAMINATION PROCESS
The assessment may consist of a rating of your education, training, and experience related to the requirements of the position.Â It is important that you provide complete and accurate information on your application.Â Please report all experience and education that is related to this position.
BENEFITS
FURTHER INSTRUCTIONS
The online application process is STRONGLY preferred.Â If you are unable to apply online, you may mail a paper application and supplemental questionnaire to:Â Â Â Â
Board of Elections
Attn: HR
151 West St. Suite 200
Annapolis, MD 21401
TTYÂ Users: call via Maryland RelayÂ 1-800-735-2258
If additional information is required, the preferred method is to upload.Â If you are unable to upload, please fax the requested informationÂ to, 410-974-5126.Â Only additional materials which are required will be accepted for this recruitment. All additional information must be received by the closing date and time.
If you are having difficulty with your user account or have general questions about the online application system, please contact the MD Department of Budget and Management, Recruitment and Examination Division, at 410-767-4850 orÂ Application.Help@maryland.gov.Â
For questions regarding this recruitment, please contact theÂ SBE Recruitment and Selection Division, at 410-269-2859.
As an equal opportunity employer, Maryland is committed to recruiting, retaining and promoting employees who are reflective of the Stateâs diversity. People with disabilities and bilingual candidates are encouraged to apply. We thank our Veterans for their service to our country.