=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: City &amp; County Clerk
Salary: $115,003.20 - $155,604.80 YEAR
Location: Broomfield, CO, CO, 80020
Employer: City and County of Broomfield
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2022-07-07
Job Type: FT Exempt
Job Number: 2022-00205
Department: Clerk & Recorder
Division: Clerk & Recorder
Opening Date: 07/08/2022
Closing Date: 7/25/2022 5:00 PM Mountain
FLSA: Exempt

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===




Join The Team, Make A Difference, Contribute to Your Community




Apply Today to Serve as Broomfield’s Next City & County Clerk!! 




Your Community 

Nationally Ranked Voter Turnout 

Transformational Growth In Next Few Years

Ranked 18th Best Place to Live in Nation




Your Team 

Highly-Rated Motor Vehicle Team 

Expert Elections Team Passionate About Voter Engagement & Process Improvement 

Driven City Clerk & Recording Team




Your Role 

Dedicated Servant Leader

Inspiring Example of Innovation & Professionalism

Critical Member of Leadership Team Eager to Collaborate Across Organization 

  

Submit your online application by 5 pm on July 25th!


Salary Range: $110,240 - $149,136
Hiring Range: $110,240 - $129,688




The anticipated selection process and timeline is as follows and is subject to change:

Application Review: Week of July 25

Screening interviews: Week of August 1

Panel Interviews: Week of August 8
Employee and Community Forum: Week of August 22
City & County Manager Interview: Week of August 22

About you: 

Would you enjoy the unique experience of managing and overseeing operations including elections procedures for both a City and a County?

Do you prefer to work collaboratively across workgroups in an organization?

Does providing leadership and direction for a complex, high-performing team sound fulfilling?

Do you create an innovative workplace by encouraging new ideas while implementing change management practices for the team and yourself?

As the City and County Clerk you will be required to perform the following job duties:

Plan, direct, organize, implement, and coordinate all programs and activities associated with City Clerk,  Recording, Elections, and Motor Vehicle divisions.

Create strategic plans, assemble staff resources, and delegate tasks to assigned staff members.

Communicate official plans, policies, and procedures to staff, civic organizations, and the general public through various means of communication.

Effectively communicate and work with City Council members.

Review proposed ordinances and regulations, plans, and technical reports related to departmental activities for content, accuracy, and feasibility; present ordinance changes, reports, and studies.

Our ideal candidate will:

Possess skill in navigating potentially contentious matters with professionalism, tact, and diplomacy.

Ability to address matters with sound political acumen. 

Display excellent relationship-building skills with internal teams and external partners.

Understand and maintain considerable knowledge of Elections, Motor Vehicle, Recording, and Municipal Clerk statutes and promulgated rules.

Have experience in Colorado election law.

Possess excellent knowledge of the principles and practices of the election process and elections systems.

Demonstrate outstanding interpersonal skills and communicate clearly and effectively (both written and verbal).

Demonstrate an analytical and creative mind to solve complex business problems.

Model excellent leadership, prioritization, and project management skills.

Exhibit eagerness to continually learn, adapt, and improve.



Please click here for a full job description.

Training - Bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university with an emphasis in business or public administration or related field.

Experience -  A minimum of at least three years of high-level management experience in the administration or operation of a clerk/recorder office.  Applicants must demonstrate senior-level work experience and understanding of the various program areas such as elections, recording, county motor vehicle operations, and city clerk operations.  Experience in Colorado election law is preferred.  

Any equivalent combination of training and experience that provides evidence that the applicant possesses the Necessary Applicant Traits.

NECESSARY SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS – Must be at least 21 years of age.  Must possess and maintain a valid driver's license and safe driving record for continued employment.  New hires must, as a condition of employment, pass the following pre-offer and post-offer/hire processes: oral board, reference checks, background checks including local police check and sex-offender registry, and driving records check through DMV.

The work environment characteristics described here are representative of those an employee encounters while performing the essential functions of the job.  The noise level in the environment is moderate.  Work is generally scheduled Monday through Friday with some weekend and evening hours required.  The physical demands described here are representative of those that must be met by an employee to successfully perform the essential functions of the job.  While performing the duties of this job, the employee is frequently required to sit, talk or hear, and use hands to finger, handle, or feel objects, tools, or controls.  The employee is occasionally required to reach with hands and arms, walk and stand.  Physical demands are described as light (exert up to 20 lbs. of force occasionally and/or up to 10 lbs. of force frequently, and/or a negligible amount of force constantly to lift, carry, push, pull, or otherwise move objects, including the human body).  Specific vision abilities required by this job include close vision, distance vision, and ability to adjust focus.  Reasonable accommodation may be made to enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions.

For a full job description, please click here and search for the job title.

All communication via your application will come from info@governmentjobs.com. 
Please add this to your email Safe List.

Broomfield is an Equal Opportunity Employer.  For additional information click here.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Do you have a valid driver's license and a safe driving record?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Are you at least 21 years of age?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Do you have at least three years of high-level management experience in the administration or operation of a clerk/recorder office?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Do you have a Bachelor's Degree from an accredited college or university with an emphasis in business or public administration or closely related field or relevant administrative work experience on a year for year basis for the education requirement?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        If you said "Yes" to having the required educational background, please explain further.  If you said "No" to possessing a minimum of a bachelor's degree, please explain how your experience, in excess of the minimum required for the position, can be substituted for the educational requirement.
        
        
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        How much work experience do you have within a City or County Clerk and Recorder's Office?  Experience must be accounted for in your application.
        
        
                None
                Less than 6 months
                More than 6 months but less than 12 months
                More than 1 year but less than 2 years
                More than 2 years but less than 3 years
                More than 3 years but less than 4 years
                More than 4 years but less than 5 years
                More than 5 years
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Please explain the work experience you have within a City or County Clerk and Recorder's Office including the duties you were responsible for.  If you do not have any experience, please type "N/A."
        
        
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Explain your experience related to elections and specifically Colorado election law?  If you do not have this requisite experience please indicate "N/A".
        
        
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        Describe your approach to managing a high-functioning team.  How do you develop future leaders within an organization.
        
        
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        Why are you interested in this position and why Broomfield?
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        