=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Technician or Elections Specialist DOQ
Salary: $22.69 - $29.95 HOUR
Location: FC 200 W Oak, CO
Employer: Larimer County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2023-09-14
Job Type: Regular
Job Number: 202300444
Department: Clerk and Recorder
Opening Date: 09/15/2023
Closing Date: 9/24/2023 11:59 PM Mountain
Full/Part Time: Full Time

BENEFITS:
  • Medical, Dental, and Vision Benefits.
  • Flexible Spending Accounts / Health Savings Account
  • Short and Long Term Disability.
  • Employee Assistance Program
  • Basic Life/Accidental Death & Dismemberment
  • Accident Insurance
  • Critical Illness Insurance
  • Retirement Plan 401(a) with employer match.
  • 457(b) Deferred Compensation.
  • Paid time off including vacation, sick and holidays.

Click here
to view information on Larimer County's Benefits.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Are you a self-motivated, positive teammate who thrives in a fast-paced, professional environment? The Larimer County Clerk & Recorder Elections division offers an outstanding opportunity for an exciting career in the field of Election Administration – where the foundation of government begins for our citizens!

We are seeking skilled Elections Technicians/Elections Specialists to join our highly respected team. This position provides support and oversight for certain election-related processes. Successful candidates will be dedicated and confident, possess excellent interpersonal and problem-solving skills, and be available to work evenings, weekends, and some holidays during elections cycles.

We serve a population of more than 300,000 citizens, more than 250,000 of which are registered voters. We embrace innovative processes and have a shown reputation for integrity. Join our team, apply today!



Please note, to be considered for this position a resume and cover letter must be attached to your application.



Specifically, this position:


Assists with Point of Service duties, including: Incoming and outbound mail processing, customer support (in-person and by phone/email), revenue handling and customer transactions. 
Provides Voter Registration support services, including: entering Voter Registration forms and other data transactions accurately and completely, performing Voter Registration list maintenance and cleanup activities, assisting customers with Colorado Voter Registration requests (such as record confidentiality, military/overseas voting status, and proof of residency). 
Reviews and updates Elections Office procedures yearly or as needed.
Monitors, analyze, and explain Election statutes and rules, including statutes and rules proposed by the Colorado State Legislature and the Colorado Department of State.
Manages both short and long-term projects in preparation for the Election Cycle.
In addition to year-round daily tasks, support one or more of the following, Election Cycle process areas:

Coordinates with local entities to sign Intergovernmental Agreements, receive certified ballot content, and layout ballot artwork in the Election Management System.
Recruits, trains, and handles temporary employees (Election Judges) for job assignments at Voter Service and Polling Centers (VSPC) and at the Central Count facility.
Organizes and prepares outgoing mail ballot materials. Collaborate with print/mail vendor and United States Postal Service to achieve timely transmission and delivery of ballots to eligible voters.
Supports VSPC operations, including set-up, operation, and break-down of all VSPC locations, intense daily support for 500+ VSPC Election Judges, and end-of-day reconciliation.
Oversees the receipt, processing, verification, and tabulation of mail ballots in the counting facility. Provide direct supervision for 150+ Central Count Election Judges.
Ensures integrity of all Election process areas through enforcement of strict security, the chain of custody, and bipartisanship requirements.
To view the full job descriptions, visit https://www.larimer.org/hr/careers/job-descriptions.

We are looking for a candidate that will:
Demonstrate familiarity with general office practices and procedures and routine software and business application including, word processing, spreadsheets, presentation software, and databases.
Communicate clearly and concisely, both verbally and in writing.
Read and comprehend department and County rules, regulations, policies, standard operating procedures, and elections statutes and rules.
Be dependable and have regular, predictable attendance.
Multi-task with contending priorities and responsibilities while having the ability to work in a stressful, fast-paced, deadline-driven environment.
Work collaboratively with others from a diverse group of backgrounds in teams to ensure a successful project outcome.
Problem solve and troubleshoot complex systems.
Have supervisory, training, and project management experience.



All candidates will be screened for the following required minimum qualifications. Any candidate who does not meet all of the qualifications listed as required for an Elections Technician will be eliminated from the process. 

Depending on qualifications this position may be hired as Elections Technician or Elections Specialist. 

Elections Technician 


Two (2) years of office experience or in the performance of similar duties required.
High School Diploma or GED required.
Possession of voter's registration in the State of Colorado within one (1) month of hire, required.
Possession of a valid Driver's License by date of hire is required.
Possession of Colorado State Election Certification within one (1) year of hire required, and/or maintain continuing education hours annually or as required 
Elections Specialist 

One (1) year of Elections experience required.
Must qualify via the Elections Department scoring rubric for classification as an Elections Specialist.
High School Diploma or GED, required.
Possession of voter's registration in the State of Colorado within one (1) month of hire, required.
Possession of a valid Driver's License by date of hire, required.
Possession of Colorado State Election Certification within one (1) year of hire required, and/or maintain continuing education hours annually or as required.

Benefits
Larimer County offers the following for all Regular/Limited Term positions:
Medical, Dental, and Vision Benefits.
Flexible Spending Accounts / Health Savings Account
Short and Long Term Disability.
Employee Assistance Program
Basic Life/Accidental Death & Dismemberment
Accident Insurance
Critical Illness Insurance
Retirement Plan 401(a) with employer match.
457(b) Deferred Compensation.
Paid time off including vacation, sick and holidays.
To view information on Larimer County's Benefits, visit https://www.larimer.org/hr/benefits.  



The typical schedule during non-election times is 8:00 am to 5:00 pm Monday to Friday. During the Election Cycle availability to work nights, weekends, and some holidays is required. 



An offer of employment is contingent upon the successful completion of required pre-employment testing. Depending on the position, these checks may include, but are not limited to; reference checks, motor vehicle reports, employment verification, education verification, fingerprinting, criminal history information, physical, and a drug screening. As marijuana is an illegal substance under federal law, testing positive for marijuana (medical or otherwise) or any other substance for which the county tests, will result in the contingent offer of employment being revoked. Successful completion of the drug screen is defined as obtaining a negative result.

All application components must be submitted by 11:59 PM MT on the closing date listed.

Larimer County is an Equal Opportunity Employer, and prohibits discrimination and harassment in all employment practices on the basis of race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy, gender identity or expression, and sexual orientation), national origin, marital status, disability, genetic information, age, military status, or any other characteristic protected by law or regulation.   