=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Chief, Departmental Operations-Registrar of Voters-26092704UROV
Salary: $125,000.00 - $145,000.00 YEAR
Location: County of San Diego, CA, CA, 92123
Employer: County of San Diego
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2026-05-22
Job Type: Regular - Full time
Job Number: 26092704UROV
Department: Registrar of Voters
Division: Election Services
Opening Date: 05/22/2026
Closing Date: 6/22/2026 11:59 PM Pacific

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===






The County of San Diego - Registrar of Voters is seeking applications from exceptionally qualified individuals for the position of:


Chief, Departmental Operations, Registrar of Voters

Click here (Download PDF reader) to view a detailed announcement including the duties and requirements of this position.

Interested applicants are encouraged to apply as soon as possible for consideration.


Special Notes: Click here to review the class description and full salary range for the Chief, Departmental Operations position.

The Department of Human Resources removes personally identifiable information from all recruitments. This practice, called Blind Applicant Screening, hides a candidate’s personal information that could influence or bias a hiring decision. Personal information includes name, phone number, address, gender, age and race. This process helps contribute to a fair and equitable selection process leading to a more diverse and inclusive workforce. The most highly qualified candidates, based on the evaluation results, will be referred for an interview.  Be sure to include your experience in meeting the minimum requirements in both the Work Experience section and the Supplemental Questionnaire section of the Application. Resumes will not be accepted in lieu of the application Work History and/or supplemental questionnaire.
 
Persons serving in positions in the Unclassified Service do not accrue tenure and serve at the pleasure of the appointing authority.
 
Reasonable accommodation may be made to enable qualified individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions of a job, on a case-by-case basis.  
As an employer of over 19,000 employees, the County of San Diego is an organization committed to veteran hiring, retention, and professional development. We recognize the contributions and sacrifices made by our veterans and value the unique expertise and leadership qualities they bring to our workforce. We strive to provide veterans with the resources and tools necessary to maximize their employment opportunities, and to assist veterans with their transition into civilian life by applying the valuable skills, knowledge and training acquired in service to positions and career paths at all levels within our large organization. Click on the resource link below to learn more about how the County of San Diego supports its veterans.
 
Military Skills Translator: Do you need assistance translating your military experience into civilian experience? This tool can help! Please click here for the Military Skills Translator.




The County of San Diego and its employees embrace the vision of a just, sustainable, and resilient future for all. Our values include: integrity, equity, access, belonging, excellence, and sustainability. Each of which are infused throughout our operations. While also embracing a mission of strengthening our communities with innovative, inclusive, and data driven services through a skilled and supported workforce. Click the following links to learn more about our Strategic Plan (Download PDF reader) and our Annual Report. At the County of San Diego, we believe that a government of the people and for the people works best with the people. By working together, we create meaningful opportunities, foster inclusive growth, and build a stronger future for everyone.
 


The County of San Diego is committed to valuing diversity and practicing inclusion because our diverse workforce is our greatest asset, and our customers are our number one priority.
 
Under California Government Code Sections 3100 - 3109, public employees are designated as disaster service workers. The term "public employees" includes all persons employed by the state or any county, city, state agency, or public district. Disaster service workers are required to participate in such disaster service activities as may be assigned to them by their employer or by law.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Please review the minimum qualifications for this position which are: 

Five years of experience that demonstrates the ability to perform the essential functions of the classification which must include two years of management or supervision, AND a bachelor's degree from an accredited U.S. college or university or a certified foreign studies equivalency. OR a combination of education and/or experience as stated above.

Note: A master’s or doctoral degree from an accredited U.S. college or university, or a certified foreign studies equivalency, may substitute for up to one (1) year of the required experience.

Note: Qualifying experience will include CAO Group Analyst or Project Manager experience that involves leading projects

Do you meet the minimum qualifications?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        The Department of Human Resources removes personally identifiable information from all recruitments. This practice, called Blind Applicant Screening, hides a candidate’s personal information that could influence or bias a hiring decision. Personal information includes name, phone number, address, gender, age and race. This process helps contribute to a fair and equitable selection process leading to a more diverse and inclusive workforce. The most highly qualified candidates, based on the evaluation results, will be referred for an interview. Be sure to include your experience in meeting the minimum requirements in both the Work Experience section and the Supplemental Questionnaire section of the Application. Resumes will not be accepted in lieu of the application Work History and/or supplemental questionnaire.

Did you update your work history in your application profile?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Please attach a copy of your  current resume, bachelor's and/or master's degree, transcripts, completion letter, or foreign studies equivalency certificate.

I have read and understand that my application will not be considered until all required information is submitted.
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Please describe your experience overseeing large scale election operations across multiple functional units (such as voter services, precinct operations, logistics, or ballot processing). What were your key responsibilities, and how did you ensure operational readiness and accuracy?

If you do not have this experience, please indicate "N/A" in your response.
        
        
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Please provide an example of a major operational process you redesigned or improved within an election or government environment. What challenges did you face, what strategy did you implement, and what were the measurable outcomes?

If you do not have this experience, please indicate "N/A" in your response.
        
        
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Tell us about your experience managing and developing a diverse workforce, including both permanent and seasonal staff. What strategies have you used to promote engagement, maintain performance standards, and ensure readiness during peak election periods? 

If you do not have this experience, please indicate "N/A" in your response.
        
        
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Where did you first hear about this job opportunity?
        
        
                San Diego County website
                Governmentjobs.com
                Veteran Outreach / FFSC
                Mana de San Diego
                Family, Neighbors, Friends
                County Employee Resources Group
                College/University Career Site
                County Social Media
                LinkedIn
                Indeed
                Voice and Viewpoint
                Government Alliance on Race and Equity
                Job Fair/Career Event
                Other
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        If you answered "Other" to the question above, please indicate where you first heard about this job opportunity. 

If this does not apply, please indicate "n/a" below.
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        