Current Job Openings
There are no open positions at this time. Please check back later for future opportunities.
About Careers
The Registrar of Voters’ staff includes 54 permanent employees in elections, 17 permanent employees in printing and graphics, numerous seasonal hires, and additional County employees assigned to support the Registrar of Voters. When a permanent position is available, the Registrar of Voters advertises and accepts applications for it through the County of Orange employment website ocgov.com/jobs. Interested applicants will need to create an account. If there are no positions currently advertised, interested applicants can submit a request through the website to be notified by email when a recruitment is opened. Make sure that “Elections” is checked.
Additionally, the Registrar of Voters hires seasonal employees to assist with the preparation and execution of each election. These seasonal positions are classified as Extra Help and are a straight hourly wage with no benefits. The Registrar of Voters hires Office Assistants to help in a variety of ways such as assisting voters, recruiting and training Vote Center employees, serving in the public or Vote Center employee phone bank, and processing ballots. Staff Assistants are recruited to lead the training for our Vote Center Employees each election. Election Workers receive and distribute supplies, ensure all mail is processed correctly, and make certain that all voting equipment is functional and properly delivered. Data Entry Technicians process voter applications, Systems Technicians manage our Information Technology operations, and Election Aides review ballots and election results. The hiring for these positions begins four to six months before the election. All positions will be listed on the County of Orange employment website, www.ocgov.com/jobs. Interested applicants will need to create an account. If there are no positions currently advertised, email notifications when a position opens can be requested through the employment website. Please make sure that “Elections” is checked.