=== JOB DETAILS ===

Salary: $60,000.00 - $73,900.00 Annually
Location: Winchester, VA
Job Type: Full-Time
Job Number: 1302001
Department: REGISTRAR
Opening Date: 04/09/2019
Closing Date: 5/13/2019 5:00 PM Eastern

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

This is a four-year term position appointed by the Electoral Board with a starting date of
July 1, 2019 and an end date of June 30, 2023.

The Frederick County Electoral Board is seeking a Director of Elections/General Registrar to provide professional and technical leadership to the Office of Elections and manage the planning, overseeing, and administering of elections in Frederick County. The Director is responsible for ensuring the necessary resources are acquired and in place to maintain the list of registered voters and assure elections are well-prepared and conducted in an accurate, efficient, and transparent manner.

The requirements for this position include, but are not limited to, those outlined below.  All job qualifications and physical requirements are subject to possible modification to reasonably accommodate individuals with disabilities to enable them to perform the essential functions of the job.  This document does not create an employment contract, implied or otherwise. It is the employer's discretion to add or change the duties or requirements of this position at any time.

Planning, developing, coordinating, and directing the activities of the Office of Elections, including voter registration; candidate processing and filing; pre-election and Election Day voting; ballot design; equipment programming and testing; poll worker recruitment and training; and voter outreach efforts.
Preparing and continuously evaluating the department's strategic goals and equipment security plan.
Supervising permanent and temporary staff of up to 10 individuals, including recruitment, training, scheduling and work assignment, implementation of policies and procedures and performance evaluation.
Coordinating the administrative processes with the Deputy Registrar, including but not limited to, budget development and monitoring, County administrative and personnel policies, and technology resources.
Analyzing departmental performance and usage data to make informed projections about future needs, including staffing, space requirements, equipment, and supplies.
Providing guidance and technical support to candidates seeking election to local offices, and certifying eligible candidates for elections, including reviewing qualifications and processing of petitions.
Managing communication tools including web page, social media, and outreach materials, and ensuring information is accurate and timely.
Monitoring legislation introduced at the state and federal levels related to elections and election administration and providing advice and expertise to legislators as needed.
Serving the community and professional organizations as a subject matter expert on elections and election administration; and representing the County at regional, state, and national workshops and conferences.
This Director must be self-directed and will report to the Frederick County Electoral Board. Additionally, the Director will receive guidance and advice from the Virginia Department of Elections as well as from various County departments and is responsible for keeping the Board informed of all relevant matters pertaining to the smooth operation of the department.

The successful candidate will have a combination of education and experience equivalent to a Bachelor's Degree in Public Administration, Management, Business Administration, Communications, or related area and significant professional experience working in state or local government administration, preferably in voter registration and election administration, with at least two years in a supervisory position. Certified professional election official a plus.
Preference will be given to Certified Professional Election Officials or candidates with a Master's Degree.
Key characteristics of the ideal candidate include:
Knowledge of laws, principles, and practices of election administration and voter registration, specifically in Virginia.
Knowledge of and experience in management and the utilization of supervision principles, concepts, and techniques; budgeting processes; policy formation, implementation, and evaluation; and security best practices, including both physical and cybersecurity.
Strong leadership skills, communication both within and outside of the department, change management, and process reengineering.
Proficiency utilizing available technologies to improve and enhance current processes, and to use initiative and innovation to explore emerging technologies.
Ability to establish effective policies and procedures; make formal presentations and present information clearly and concisely verbally and in writing; and interpret laws, regulations, policies, and procedures; and make appropriate decisions accordingly.
Ability to exercise tact and courtesy, and to work under pressure and adapt to rapidly changing circumstances.
Ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships with county, state, federal, media, non-profit, community, private, and other related entities.
Certified Election and Registration Associate and/or Virginia Registered Election Official preferred.
Special Requirements
Please provide a cover letter addressing how your education, experience and training meets the requirements under selection criteria highlighting your accomplishments in these areas. Please use the space provided in the Supplemental Questions section of the online application for your cover letter or attach it to your online application.

Must be a registered voter in Frederick County at time of appointment and eligible to become a Virginia Notary Public.

The employee must have the ability to lift light and occasionally heavier objects of up to approximately 40 pounds.

This is a 40-hour per week position with the incumbent being required to work additional hours leading up to and including Election Days, including some evenings and weekends.

The County's EEO Utilization Report has been available at www.fcva.us/jobs. 

There are a wide variety of benefits available to Frederick County employees. These benefits include: health, dental, vision, life insurance, optional life and disability plans, flexible spending account for health care, dependent care assistance program, an employee assistance program and a deferred compensation program.Please click here to view our Frederick County Employee Benefits information page with full details on all insurance plans offered.