=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Deputy Director of Elections
Salary: $78,780.00 - $125,866.00 YEAR
Location: 80120, CO, CO, 80120
Employer: Arapahoe County
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2022-12-07
Job Type: Full-time
Job Number: 05167
Department: Clerk and Recorder's Office
Division: Elections
Opening Date: 12/08/2022
Closing Date: 2/16/2023 9:00 AM Mountain

BENEFITS:
  • Medical, Dental, and Vision Insurance
  • Life and Supplemental Life Insurance
  • Short and Long Term Disability
  • Mandatory Pension Plan
  • Deferred Compensation Plan
  • Pre-paid Legal Services
  • Vacation and Sick Leaves
  • Holiday pay
  • Training and Educational Reimbursement Opportunities

For a more detailed listing of our benefit programs, click on the MENU link on the left and then Benefits Summary.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

The Deputy Director of Elections position has direct responsibility for the entire Election Division. This position will direct complex administrative and supervisory work in activities. The Deputy Director of Elections supports the Chief Deputy Director and the Clerk and Recorder with issues concerning all operations of Elections. The following statements are illustrative of the essential function of the job.

The following duty statements are illustrative of the essential functions of the job and do not include other non-essential or marginal duties that may be required. The County reserves the right to modify or change the duties or essential functions of the job at any time.

Directs the long term strategic operation of the Election Division which may include but is not limited to, legislative tracking, budget development, business process analysis, data analysis, project management, coordination with external and internal stakeholders and overseeing senior management staff.
Manages, and ensures statutory compliance of all election functions including: voting equipment, voter registration, mailing ballots, and providing access to voter service polling centers.
Serves as the project manager and primary point of contact for election systems software and hardware vendors.
Responsible for the evaluations of the Election staff as directed by the Chief Deputy Director and/or Clerk and Recorder.
Informs the Chief Deputy Director and/or Clerk and Recorder on the status of projects and/or changes within the Division.
Attends association and professional meetings to enhance and maintain knowledge of trends and developments in elections, as determined necessary by the Chief Deputy Director and/or Clerk and Recorder.
Responds to inquiries, providing guidance and interpretation regarding application of the organization's policies and procedures.
Technical expert of election software, business processes, statutes, rules and regulations. 
Voting equipment and election security subject matter expert.
Responsible for overall timekeeping and leave within the Election Division
DECISION MAKING:
Recommends and develops solutions to issues affecting the Election Division
Delegate's decision-making responsibility and authority over function(s) or operation(s) to lead as appropriate.
Manages and resolves difficult problems or customers within the Elections Division.
Functions collaboratively when making Office decisions as a member of the Leadership team
LEADERSHIP:
Exhibits strong commitment to the highest level of ethical standards, compassion, empowerment, confidence, and innovation.
Influences the overall direction of the Election Division through collaborative leadership.
Models the values and ethics of the County and leads by practicing and implementing Align Arapahoe initiatives.
Acts as point of contact with various internal and external agencies including the Secretary of State's office, Election software and hardware vendors, Colorado County Clerk's Associations, political organizations, municipal governments, school districts, and other election coordinating entities.
Shows initiative, a self-starter and works independently.
Actively engaged as a team member, providing input and feedback.
PLANNING AND ORGANIZING:
Conducts long-range planning studies on Election Division issues and recommends projects, programs, and procedures to achieve operational objectives.
Maintains a statistical analysis of the Division derived from the weekly/monthly reports generated by the Election software systems. Develops long-range planning studies on management problems and assists with finding solutions to the problems.
Ensures programs and projects keep to schedules and are accomplished within budget projections and relevant performance measures.
HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT:
Collaborates with the Chief Deputy Director and/or Clerk and Recorder with staffing plans to meet organizational, functional and/or operational requirements.
Manages and directs Management, sets work priorities, provides guidance and instruction on expected outcomes, and delegates and reviews work.
Responds to personnel issues, conferring with Chief Deputy Director and/or Clerk and Recorder.
Sets performance standards/objectives for staff within the Election Division.

SKILLS & ABILITIES:
Thorough knowledge of state statutes, rules, regulations, procedures and forms applicable to the operation of the Election Division.
Communication skills, both oral and written, which enable courteous and diplomatic interactions with the public, vendors, staff, and other County divisions.
Possess exceptional creative thinking and problem-solving skills.
Strong ability to analyze data from multiple sources and report findings.
Understanding of intermediate and complex budget management, system analysis, and process analysis/development.
High level of presentation skills with the ability to explain complex business processes/concepts effectively.
Supervisory skills including team building, training, and work assignment.
Ability to exercise a high degree of interpersonal skills to influence persons at all levels.
Ability to grasp complex and widely varied issues quickly, develop plans to implement actions to address the issues, and be able to communicate those issues in a clear, concise manner to management, staff, entities, and vendors.

BEHAVIORAL COMPETENCIES:
Service First
Excellent Quality
Responsive Government
Visionary Thinking
Innovation
Caring Leadership
Effective Communication
Fiscal Responsibility
Integrity
Respect for Others
Safety
Teamwork

EDUCATION:

Bachelor's Degree is required.
Master's degree in Political Science, computer science, public/business administration, Communications or a related field preferred.

EXPERIENCE:
5 years of Election related experience
3 years in a supervisory or lead role

PRE-EMPLOYMENT ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
This position requires successful completion of pre-employment background and motor vehicle checks.

WORK ENVIRONMENT: 

Work is generally confined to a standard office environment.
 
PHYSICAL DEMANDS:
The following are some of the physical demands commonly associated with this position.
Spends 50% of the time sitting and 50% of the time either standing or walking.
Occasionally lifts, carries, pulls or pushes up to 20 lbs.
Occasionally uses cart, dolly, or other equipment to carry in excess of 20 lbs.
Occasionally climbs, stoops, kneels, balances, reaches, crawls and crouches while performing office or work duties.
Verbal and auditory capacity enabling constant interpersonal communication through automated devices, such as telephones, radios, and similar; and in public meetings and personal interactions.
Constant use of eye, hand and finger coordination enabling the use of automated office machinery or equipment.
Visual capacity enabling constant use of computer or other work related equipment.

Definitions:
Occasionally: Activity exists less than 1/3 of the time.
Frequently: Activity exists between 1/3 and 2/3 of the time.
Constantly: Activity exists more than 2/3 of the time.

Toll Free Applicant Technical Support:  If you experience technical difficulty with the NEOGOV system (i.e. uploading or attaching documents to your online application), call NEOGOV technical support at 855-524-5627.  Helpful hints: if you are having difficulty uploading or attaching documents to your application, first, ensure your documents are PDF or Microsoft Word files, and second, close the document before you attempt uploading (attaching) it.

 

* Arapahoe County does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, disability, genetic information, sexual orientation or any other status protected under the law. It is our intention that all qualified applicants be given equal opportunity in any term, condition, or privilege of employment and that selection decisions are based on job-related factors. Arapahoe County is committed to making employment accessible to persons with disabilities.

** In accordance with Senate Bill 23-058, applicants understand that Arapahoe County will not request or require the applicant to include their age, date of birth, or date of attendance/graduation date on the initial application. Applicants understand that Arapahoe County can request or require an individual to provide documentation including copies of certification, transcripts, and other materials created by a third party. The applicant understands that the applicant can redact, if they so choose, information that identifies age, date of birth, or dates of attendance/graduation from an educational institution on those requested/required certification, transcripts and other materials created by a third party. 

Toll Free Applicant Technical Support:  If you experience technical difficulty with the NEOGOV system (i.e. uploading or attaching documents to your online application), call NEOGOV technical support at 855-524-5627.  Helpful hints: if you are having difficulty uploading or attaching documents to your application, first, ensure your documents are PDF or Microsoft Word files, and second, close the document before you attempt uploading (attaching) it. 

As a Regular Full-Time employee at Arapahoe County Government, you are eligible for benefits such as:	Medical, Dental, and Vision Insurance	Life and Supplemental Life Insurance	Short and Long Term Disability	Mandatory Pension Plan	Deferred Compensation Plan	Pre-paid Legal Services	Vacation and Sick Leaves	Holiday pay	Training and Educational Reimbursement OpportunitiesFor a more detailed listing of our benefit programs, click on the MENU link on the left and then Benefits Summary.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Please choose the response that best describes your educational background.
        
        
                High School Graduate or GED equivalent
                Associates Degree
                Associates Degree in political science, public administration, business administration, or related field
                Bachelor's Degree
                Bachelor's Degree in political science, public administration, business administration, or related field
                Master's Degree
                Master's Degree in political science, public administration, business administration, or related field
                PhD
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Please choose the response that best describes your elections administration related experiences.
        
        
                No Experience, Not applicable
                Less than 1 year of experience
                1 year but less than 3 years of experience
                3 years but less than 5 years of experience
                5 years but less than 7 years of experience
                7 or more years of experience
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Please describe your experience in working with elected officials, policy makers, advocacy groups, and the public.
        
        
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Do you have project management experience?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Please describe some of the projects you have managed.
        
        
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Choose the response that best describes your management experience.
        
        
                Less than 1 year of experience
                1 year to less than 3 years of experience
                3 years to less than 5 years of experience
                5 years to less than 7 years of experience
                7 or more years of experience
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Please describe your experience working with various forms of media and working with the Press.
        
        
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Please describe your professional experience with budgeting and vendor contract relations.
        
        
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        Please list the election systems that you have experience with.
        
        
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        Do you have a current, valid driver's license?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

11

    

    
        How many moving traffic violations have you been cited for in the past two years?
        
        
                Less than 3 violations
                3 or 4 violations
                5 or more violations
        
    


    
        

12

    

    
        Have you received eight or more points within the past twelve months or twelve or more points within the past twenty-four months against your driving record?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

13

    

    
        In the past three years, have you had your driver's license revoked or suspended?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        