=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Departmental Analyst 9-P11 - Data &amp; Programs Section
Salary: $52,208.00 - $81,806.40 YEAR
Location: Lansing, MI, MI, 48909
Employer: State of Michigan
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2024-04-15
Job Type: Permanent Full Time
Remote Employment: Flexible/Hybrid
Job Number: 2301-24-BOE027
Department: Department of State
Opening Date: 04/16/2024
Closing Date: 4/26/2024 11:59 PM Eastern
Bargaining Unit: NON-EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTED EMPLOYEE (NERE)

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===




This position serves as the street index and addressing administrator for the Michigan Qualified Voter File (QVF). QVF is used by all election officials, county, township, and city, statewide. This position must analyze and coordinate all activities associated with the data integrity of the street index of the QVF.




Departmental Analyst 9-P11 Position Description (Download PDF reader)




APPOINTMENT TYPE/BENEFITS - This position is Full-Time. Therefore, you would be eligible to participate in the benefits offered by the state. 

MDOSJOBS

Education
Possession of a bachelor's degree in any major.

Experience 
Departmental Analyst 9 - No specific type or amount is required.

Departmental Analyst 10 - One year of professional experience.

Departmental Analyst P11 - Two years of professional experience, including one year of experience equivalent to the intermediate (10) level in state service.
 

If you qualify based on your education, you must attach a copy of your "official" college transcripts (unofficial transcripts are not accepted). 

You must apply for this vacancy through the NEOGOV system; click on "Apply" in the job posting for instructions in submitting your electronic application. Your application for any position does not guarantee that you will be contacted by the Department for further consideration. Only those applicants interviewed will be notified of the results.

Civil Service Commission Rule 2-7 requires that all newly hired state employees submit to and pass a pre-employment drug test prior to their actual appointment.  Due to the nature of work of the Department of State, criminal records will be checked.  Any position offer will be conditional until results of the criminal background record checks indicate eligibility for employment. 

View the job specification at: CurrentJobSpecification (michigan.gov) 
 

Accommodations
If you require a reasonable accommodation to participate in the application or selection processes, please contact the ADA coordinator (Download PDF reader) for the agency that posted this position vacancy.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        DEPTALT - Do you possess one of the following? A bachelor's degree or higher in any major. If so, please attach a copy of your official college transcripts; 
OR 
at least one year of professional level experience in the state classified service.
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Are you related to anyone working at the Department of State (Secretary of State)?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        If you answered "Yes" to question #2, please list the name of each relative. If you answered "no" to question #2, please enter "none."
        
        
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Please list all previous names, to include name at birth, and any alias name(s) used. If you do not have any previous/alias names to list, please enter "none".
        
        
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Are you a current BOE employee or contractor?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Have you attached a professional résumé to your application?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        How much experience do you have working with Geographic Information Systems (GIS)?
        
        
                None
                Less than 1 year
                1 to 3 years
                3 to 5 years
                More than 5 years
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Please describe your experience working with GIS. If you do not have this experience, please enter "none".
        
        
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        How much experience do you have gathering business requirements for technical projects such as software development?
        
        
                None
                Less than 1 year
                1 to 3 years
                3 to 5 years
                More than 5 years
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        Please describe your experience working with specialty databases or custom software applications. If you have no experience, please type "none".
        
        
        
    


    
        

11

    

    
        Please describe your experience with software testing or troubleshooting technical problems. If you have no experience, please type "none".
        
        
        
    


    
        

12

    

    
        If you qualify for this position by possessing a bachelor's degree, did you remember to upload your official college transcripts to your application?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

13

    

    
        Please select from the options below: (Please note, actions that have been expunged, formal counseling, and layoff actions need not be reported.) Failure to answer this question honestly may result in being sanctioned from employment with MDOS. Please select all that apply.
        
        
                I have been dismissed within the last two years
                I have resigned in lieu of discipline or dismissal within the last two years
                I have been suspended without pay within the last two years
                I have received an unsatisfactory rating in the last two years
                I have received a written reprimand within the last two years
                I have signed a last chance agreement with MDOS within the last two years
                I certify that none of the above circumstances apply to me
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        