The employee and supervisor collaborate to develop the approach, timelines and general framework for projects and, within these parameters, the employee independently plans and carries out the work involved in developing, maintaining, and managing media communication, coordinating with others as appropriate, interpreting and applying policy, determining the content and format for media communication, and consulting with the supervisor on questionable content or issues.
The Director of Communications assigns special projects and assignments, defining the nature of the assignment, objectives to be achieved, and resources available. The employee independently resolves most problems that arise, keeping the Director informed on unusual, sensitive or controversial matters. Completed work is reviewed for achievement of objectives and consistency with governing laws, regulations, policies, and the EAC strategic plan.
Major Duties
Creation of Communications Materials and Public Relations Support.
Research, develop, write, and edit presentations, press releases, fact sheets, feature articles, letters, speeches, testimony, annual reports, opinion pieces, videos, and other public-facing communications materials that effectively communicate the agency's goals to EAC stakeholders and a variety of public and internal audiences.
Coordinate with the Director of Communications to disseminate daily news and social media reports to EAC staff and leadership.
Work with the Director of Communications to procure and manage contracts and assist with the procurement of other Communications-related needs, i.e. photography, video, subscriptions, and other non-EAC services and goods.
Work with the Director of Communications on virtual and in-person events planning and execution including agendas, briefing materials, promotional materials, preparation for staff, and event management.
When assigned, accompanies EAC staff and leadership to public events and/or information gathering trips. Occasional travel required when deemed necessary.
In consultation with the Director of Communications, plans and implements communications plans, events, media campaigns, press conferences, briefings, messaging and interviews.
Participate in developing communications and media initiatives, planning and implementing of media events, and maintaining a proactive media strategy and content calendar for the Commission's owned channels (social media, website, blogs, etc.).
Provide background information to the media as required and drafts talking points for spokespersons ahead of interviews and presentations. Pending approval by the Director of Communications, speaks on record, at times with attribution.
Develop and maintain productive working relationships with members of the media. Enlist the cooperation of media representatives in providing accurate information to the public that furthers the goals and objectives of the EAC.
Serve as a backup when the Director of Communications is unavailable.
Research various sources of pertinent information on election administration to ensure working knowledge of EAC activities and priorities, as well as a familiarity with outside election research, Congressional activities, and external election events. Help to evaluate information and determine its relevance and suitability for EAC communications.
Attend staff briefings and policy discussions to gain knowledge of EAC activities to remain current on the latest developments of interest to the public, assist in preparing for and responding to media inquiries, and formulate recommendations regarding agency policies and programs.
Candidates must meet all qualifications prior to the closing date of this announcement.
Candidates must be a US Citizen.
This position is subject to a (1) year probationary period.
Qualifications
COMPETENCIES:
Interpersonal Effectiveness: Skill in responding appropriately to a diversity of groups and individuals in a variety of challenging situations. Demonstrated ability to be tactful and to treat others with respect. Skill in developing networks, achieving cooperation, and collaborating with others when appropriate.
Influencing/Negotiating: Skill in influencing others to accept and implement recommendations and in building consensus. Ability to effectively resolve significant or controversial issues.
Written and Oral Communication: Demonstrated ability to clearly, succinctly and convincingly express facts and ideas both in writing and orally. Skill in listening and appropriately responding to the ideas, points of view, or concerns of others.
External Awareness: Skill in identifying, analyzing, and keeping abreast of legislation, policies, political, and social trends that affect the EAC and assess the impact to the agency's mission.
TECHNICAL COMPETENCIES REQUIRED
Understanding of PowerPoint and other software platforms used for EAC communications resources.
Ability to navigate media management software and disseminate information using this portal.
Ability to do basic graphic design and video editing.
Knowledge of the principles, practices, methods and techniques of written and oral communications. Skill in applying such knowledge to perform assignments involving public information, internal information, and community relations activities for internal and external audiences; develop written information materials for dissemination through a variety of media; determine and effectively use the most appropriate means for transmitting information and evaluate the effectiveness of the plans developed to communicate with targeted audiences.
Skill and knowledge to develop innovative written communication materials such as news releases, feature stories, fact sheets, presentations, etc., and other products that effectively transmit information about EAC's programs and activities.
Ability to speak to agency priorities and successes, and respond to criticism in a professional manner.
Knowledge of information gathering and analysis techniques to gather, analyze, summarize, and report on election-related data.
Education
Bachelor's degree in English, communications, journalism, or related field, or other bachelor's degree with equivalent relevant work experience.
Additional information
You must submit all required information by the closing date. If materials are not received, your application will be evaluated solely on the information available and you may not receive full consideration or may not be considered eligible. The materials you send with your application will not be returned.
Send only those materials needed to evaluate your application.
If you use public transportation, part of your transportation costs may be subsidized.
Failure to provide all of the required information as stated in this vacancy announcement may result in an ineligible rating or may affect the overall rating.
All applicants MUST submit applications via email: resumes@eac.gov. You do not need to submit your application package through the USAJOBS process.
You MUST include the job title and announcement number in the subject line of the email.
Your application package must be received by the closing date of the announcement and must include the following:
1. A resume.
2. Three professional references:
Name, Title, Name of Agency/Business, Contact Number, and Email; and
Include your current (or most recent if not currently employed) direct manager/supervisor as one of the three references.
3. For current or former federal employees, you must submit a copy of your last Notification of Personnel Action (SF50) showing your position, title, series, grade and eligibility;
4. A copy of your most recent performance appraisal. If you do not have a recent performance appraisal, please explain why you do not have one; and
5. Attach Two writing samples.
Failure to provide all of the required information as stated in this vacancy announcement may result in an ineligible rating or may affect the overall rating.
All applicants MUST submit applications via email: resumes@eac.gov. You do not need to submit your application package through the USAJOBS process.
You MUST include the job title and announcement number in the subject line of the email.
Your application package must be received by the closing date of the announcement and must include the following:
1. A resume.
2. Three professional references:
Name, Title, Name of Agency/Business, Contact Number, and Email; and
Include your current (or most recent if not currently employed) direct manager/supervisor as one of the three references.
3. For current or former federal employees, you must submit a copy of your last Notification of Personnel Action (SF50) showing your position, title, series, grade and eligibility;
4. A copy of your most recent performance appraisal. If you do not have a recent performance appraisal, please explain why you do not have one; and
5. Attach Two writing samples.