=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Departmental Analyst 9-12 - Elections Training and Communication Unit
Salary: $21.03 - $35.59 HOUR
Location: Lansing, MI, MI, 48909
Employer: State of Michigan
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2019-07-11
Job Type: Permanent Full Time
Job Number: 2301-19-EL318
Department: Department of State
Opening Date: 07/12/2019
Closing Date: 7/22/2019 11:59 PM Eastern
Bargaining Unit: NON-EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTED EMPLOYEE (NERE)

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

The incumbent will provide training, guidance and policy interpretation to county, city, and township clerks statewide based on voter registration, Michigan Election Law, established election-related policies and procedures, and the eLearning Center. Assist with the coordination of Bureau of Elections (BOE) activities related to the planning, scheduling, development, revision, delivery and ongoing assessment of BOE training programs for over 1,600 election officials statewide. Assist in the supervision and administration of the election laws under the direction of the Secretary of State, Director of Elections and the Board of State Canvassers. Assist with regular statewide reporting projects, including the Provisional Ballot Report, Military and Overseas Voter Report, Post-Election Audit reports and other election-related requests and topics.

(9-P11 level) Position Description (Download PDF reader)
(12- level) Position Description (Download PDF reader)

MDOSJOBS

Education
Possession of a bachelor's degree in any major.

Experience
Departmental Analyst 9 - No specific type or amount is required.

Departmental Analyst 10 - One year of professional experience.

Departmental Analyst P11 - Two years of professional experience, including one year of experience equivalent to the intermediate (10) level in state service.

Departmental Analyst 12 - Three years of professional experience, including one year of experience equivalent to the experienced (P11) level in state service

If you qualify based on your education, you must attach a copy of your "official" college transcripts (non-official transcripts are not acceptable). 

Civil Service Commission Rule 2-7 requires that all newly hired state employees submit to and pass a pre-employment drug test prior to their actual appointment.

Due to the nature of work of the Department of State, criminal and driving records will be checked.

You must apply for this vacancy through the NEOGOV system; click on "Apply" in the job posting for instructions in submitting your electronic application. Hard copy applications will not be accepted.
 
Your application for any position does not guarantee that you will be contacted by the Department for further consideration. Only those applicants interviewed will be notified of the results.
 
If you have questions with navigating through NEOGOV or need assistance with uploading and/or attaching your documents, please view the following contact information: SOM How to Apply.

Accommodations
If you require a reasonable accommodation to participate in the application or selection processes, please contact the ADA coordinator (Download PDF reader) for the agency that posted this position vacancy.

 State employment benefits include everything from health insurance to retirement income and are worth about 40% of your salary This page gives a brief explanation of some of the benefits that are provided by the State of Michigan according to union contracts or Civil Service Rules. See details on these and other employment information.Leave TimeFull time employees receive between 15 and 35 vacation leave days per year. Employees also receive 13 sick days per year, and employees receive 8 hours of leave to participate in certain school functions or community activities. Employees may also qualify for up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave for certain family or medical situations.HolidaysState employees receive 12 scheduled holidays each year, which include New Years Eve Day and New Years Day, Christmas Eve Day and Christmas Day, Memorial Day, and Veterans Day just to name a few.Alternative Work SchedulesFlexible work schedules and telecommuting options are available in many jobs.Insurance and Other BenefitsInsurances include health, vision, dental and life. Employees also have the option to purchase additional life, accidental death, long term disability, long term care insurance, and legal services. Flexible spending accounts for medical expenses and child care are also available.Deferred CompensationEmployees may invest income in a tax-deferred retirement investment program. The state offers two optional deferred compensation plans, the 457 and 401(k). Employees decide the amount you want deducted from your paycheck.RetirementEmployees receive a minimum 4% state contribution toward their retirement fund. If an employee elects to contribute more, the state will match that percentage (up to 3%). ORS administers two different retirement plans for State of Michigan employees: a Defined Benefit (DB) plan and a Defined Contribution (DC) plan. Use the following link for detailed information: Two plans for State Employees


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        DEPTALT - Do you possess one of the following? A bachelor's degree or higher in any major. If so, please attach a copy of your official college transcripts; OR at least one year of professional level experience in the state classified service.
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Are you related to anyone working at the Department of State (Secretary of State)?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        If you answered "Yes" to question #2, please list the name of each relative. If you answered "no" to question #2, please enter "none."
        
        
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have  preparing training materials, manuals and instructions?
        
        
                No experience
                Less than 1 year
                1 to 3 years
                3 to 5 years
                More than 5 years
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Please describe your experience with the preparation of training materials, manuals and instructions. If you have no experience, please type "None".
        
        
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have making presentations and conducting workshops?
        
        
                No experience
                Less than 1 year
                1 to 3 years
                3 to 5 years
                More than 5 years
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Please describe your experience with making presentations and conducting workshops. If you have no experience, please type "None".
        
        
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have coordinating and managing data collection, including the use of spreadsheet applications?
        
        
                No experience
                Less than 1 year
                1 to 3 years
                3 to 5 years
                More than 5 years
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        Please describe your experience with coordinating and managing data collection. If you have no experience, please type "None".
        
        
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        If you qualify based on your education, did you attach your "official" college transcripts (unofficial transcripts are not acceptable)?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        