=== JOB DETAILS ===

Salary: $16.40 - $20.50 Hourly
Location: Castle Rock, CO
Job Type: Part-Time Regular
Job Number: 1206S 04/22/19
Department: Clerk & Recorder
Opening Date: 04/22/2019
Closing Date: 5/1/2019 9:45 AM Mountain
FLSA: Non-Exempt

BENEFITS:
  • 10 ½ paid holidays each year + a floating holiday
  • 8 hours of paid vacation per month
  • 8 hours of paid sick time per month
  • Medical insurance employees can choose from three plan options:   Aetna WHN CO Front Range Select,  Aetna Open Access Select (HMO) or Aetna WHN CO Front Range Choice POSII HDHP/HSA.
  • Life insurance 1.5 times employee salary at no cost to employee
  • Short-term and long-term disability at no cost to employee
  • Mandatory retirement – defined contribution of either 6% or 8% - matched at 8%
  • Annual performance reviews with potential for an increase

Additionally, we offer dental, vision, accident/critical illness insurance, tuition reimbursement, and employee training.  Part-time employees receive a pro-rated benefits package.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

This position is focused on routine customer service and general office/clerical support including data entry, communications, and processing mail. This is a support role capable of performing a variety of tasks, with problem solving abilities, managing multiple competing responsibilities and prioritizing to maintain a continuous flow of election office operations. This is a visible and crucial position requiring exceptional computer, customer service, and communication skills. 

Please Note: This is a benefited part-time position and benefits are pro-rated to 30 hours per week. This is an open until filled posting, review of applications and interviews will begin immediately and continue until suitable candidates are selected.  

(The following examples are illustrative only and are not intended to be all inclusive.)

Primary responsibility for daily customer service; answers phones; greets and serves in person customers.
Primary responsibility for processing daily mail, voter correspondence, and voter registration forms; manages Elections Office email account.
Primary responsibility for performing voter registration data entry and data entry proofing daily.
Primary responsibility for ordering office supplies and voter registration materials.
Posts and reconciles daily credit card and cash sales.
Prepares certified copies and standard copies for sale to customers; supports processing of Colorado Open Records requests (copies, receipt of payment).
Generates standard and custom report orders for customers, political parties, and candidates; produces daily voter notices.
Supports training efforts as assigned.
Schedules work orders as needed.
Assists with coordination of Elections Office staff events and hospitality support for Election Day.
Administers state election laws and rules, and federal election laws to provide successful voting experience to staff and public.
Maintains confidentiality of information consistent with applicable federal, state, and county rules and regulations.
Creates, revises, and maintains standard operating procedures to perform role specific functions.
Participates in cross-training efforts in other departments within the Clerk and Recorder's Office.
Attends training, conferences, workshops or online courses to obtain or maintain Certified Election Official status, to enhance and maintain knowledge of trends and developments in the field, and to gain knowledge and information to assist with professional development.
Establishes and maintains effective working relationships with other employees, departments, agencies, and the public.
Assist with special projects.
Performs other duties as assigned in support of business operations and statutory compliance.

A high school diploma or GED and two years of front facing clerical, customer service experience; previous election office experience a plus.
Associates Degree in Business Administration, Public Administration, or similar field preferred.
Ability to meet continuing education requirements set by the state and the Douglas County Clerk & Recorder's Office.
SUPERVISION RECEIVED: 
This position receives frequent supervision with periodic review of job performance.

SUPERVISORY RESPONSIBILITIES: 

This position has no direct supervisory responsibility and may occasionally assist with monitoring election judges and temporary employees (3-10).

CONSEQUENCE OF ERROR:

Errors in judgment or failure to achieve results could have a serious consequence and negatively affect the function of the division, produce negative public perceptions, result in budgetary overrun, flawed decision making by Douglas County, local government entities. 
Additional consequences may include non-compliance with Election law and litigation.  
 INDEPENDENT JUDGMENT: 
Identify opportunities for process and/or productivity enhancements.
Effectively utilize resources (reports, policies, experience, and job knowledge) to draw logical conclusions to problems.
Decisions are guided by governing statutes and rules, department/division policies under direction of the Deputy of Elections, Operations Manager, or Lead Elections Specialist.

CONTACTS:

Managers, supervisors, other employees, and departments
State, County, Municipal, and Special District Elected Officials
Political Party Chairpersons
Election Managers/Supervisors in other counties
Candidates for Elected Offices
Secretary of State's Office
Vendors
Public
LANGUAGE SKILLS:
Must be able to communicate effectively in both oral and written form, as well as fluently speak, read and write English.
Recognizes and used correct English grammar, punctuation, and spelling, produces written information that is appropriate for the intended audience.
Ability to effectively present ideas and information in a one-on-one and small to medium groups situations.

REASONING ABILITY: 

Ability to apply common sense understanding to interpret and carry out a variety of instructions in written, verbal, or diagram form.
Ability to manage and perform a variety of duties, often changing from one task to another of a different nature, without loss of efficiency or composure.
Ability to make judgments or decisions based on available information.
Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.

OTHER SKILLS AND ABILITIES:

Ability to understand, interpret, explain, and comply with election law and Secretary of State rules as they relate to security and election equipment (including but not limited to Title 1 C.R.S, SoS Rules Concerning Elections).
Ability to work effectively both independently and in a team environment is required and utilize initiative to direct own and other's activities.
Ability to manage multiple activities concurrently, allocating time to each according to prioritization is required.
Ability to add, subtracts, multiply and divide into all units of measure, using whole numbers, common fractions and decimals.
Proficient skill levels in most current Microsoft Office Suite, including Outlook, Word, Excel, PowerPoint.
Previous use of SharePoint preferred.
Perform general typing, filing and collating functions.
Practice and promote teamwork at all levels.
Establish and maintain effective work relationships.

CERTIFICATES, LICENSES, REGISTRATIONS:

Must have and maintain a valid Colorado Driver's License and complying Colorado Insurance.
US citizenship required.
Must pass state and/or national criminal background check annually.
Must obtain Secretary of State Election Certification within one year from date of hire and maintain certification on bi-annual basis.
The ability to successfully complete pre-employment screening including but not limited to: reference checks, criminal background (to include fingerprinting through a national data base), motor vehicle record, and drug screen is required.
 

 


WORK ENVIRONMENT:

Work is generally performed in an office or warehouse environment.
Travel to meetings, conferences, classes and other activities may be required.
Subject to blackout periods for planned time off lasting up to three months at a time. Typically this timeframe may begin 60 days prior to Election Day and may end 30 days past Election Day. Election Deputy, Operations Manager, and/or County Clerk and Recorder, based on workloads and demands, may identify additional blackout periods with little notice.
Extended work hours may be required to include evenings, weekends, and holidays.
Must be able to adhere to the established Mission, Vision, and Values of the Clerk and Recorder's Office.
 

PHYSICAL DEMANDS:

Required to stand, walk, sit, talk, hear, and drive.
Specific vision abilities required by this job include vision and the ability to adjust focus.
Occasional heavy lifting 35 pounds or more.
Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions.

In the event of an emergency/disaster in or near the County, all County employees are expected to make every effort to be available to assist the County Manager, Elected/Appointed Officials and Department Directors to ensure the continued operation of any and all necessary County functions.  This may mean being available to perform additional duties and hours beyond what is normally required.  In the event that an exempt employee does work more than 40 hours a week in support of County operations during an emergency, such employee may receive overtime or other appropriate wage compensation in accordance with existing County policies or at the discretion of the County.