=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Specialist II
Salary: $3,214.00 - $4,017.00 MONTH
Location: Castle Rock, CO, CO, 80104
Employer: Douglas County Government (CO)
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2019-04-30
Job Type: Full-Time Regular
Job Number: 1132S 4/1/19
Department: Clerk & Recorder
Opening Date: 05/01/2019
Closing Date: 5/16/2019 12:00 PM Mountain
FLSA: Non-Exempt

BENEFITS:
  • 10 ½ paid holidays each year + a floating holiday
  • 8 hours of paid vacation per month
  • 8 hours of paid sick time per month
  • Medical insurance employees can choose from three plan options:   Aetna WHN CO Front Range Select,  Aetna Open Access Select (HMO) or Aetna WHN CO Front Range Choice POSII HDHP/HSA.
  • Life insurance 1.5 times employee salary at no cost to employee
  • Short-term and long-term disability at no cost to employee
  • Mandatory retirement – defined contribution of either 6% or 8% - matched at 8%
  • Annual performance reviews with potential for an increase

Additionally, we offer dental, vision, accident/critical illness insurance, tuition reimbursement, and employee training.  Part-time employees receive a pro-rated benefits package.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===


The Election Specialist II is responsible for routine support services related to temporary employees, training, Voter Service and Polling Centers, mail ballot processing, voter registration, and customer service. This position contributes to the department's achievement of delivering efficient, transparent, fair and accurate elections as well as performs other projects as assigned. This position requires technical work in a lead role capable of performing a variety of complex tasks, with solving problem abilities, managing multiple competing tasks and prioritizing to maintain a continuous flow of operations and temporary support. This is a visible and crucial position requiring previous elections experience, and exceptional computer, customer service, and communication skills. 
 
Please note this position is posted as open until filled, review of applications will begin immediately and continue until a suitable candidate is selected.
 


(The following examples are illustrative only and are not intended to be all-inclusive.)
 
·       Supports all functions related to hiring, onboarding, training, and return employment of temporary employees.
·       Creates, revises, and maintains training materials.
·       Coordinates technology needs, creates and implements schedules, and conducts training for temporary employees and election judges.
·       Administers state election laws and rules, and federal election laws to provide successful voting experience to staff and public.
·       Maintains confidentiality of information consistent with applicable federal, state, and county rules and regulations.
·       Provides daily customer service; answers phones; greets and serves in person customers.
·       Coordinates Elections Office staff events and hospitality support for Election Day.
·       Creates, revises, and maintains standard operating procedures to perform role specific functions.
·       Performs quality assurance on functional area processes on a continual basis.
·       Performs voter registration data entry and data entry proofing; manages National Change of Address.
·       Generates reports for public, political parties, and management as requested including support for Colorado Open Records Act.
·       Participates in cross-training efforts within Elections Division and in other divisions of the Clerk and Recorder's Office.
·       Attends training, conferences, workshops, or online courses to obtain and/or maintain Certified Election Official status, to enhance and maintain knowledge of trends and developments in the field, and to gain knowledge and information to assist with professional development.
·       Establishes and maintains effective working relationships with other employees, departments, agencies, and the public.
·       Assists with special projects.
·       Cross-trained to cover responsibilities of Elections Specialist I and in functions related to election judge coordination.
·       Performs other duties as assigned in support of business operations and statutory compliance.
 
VOTER REGISTRATION AND MAIL BALLOT PROCESSING:
·       Prepares mail ballot sorting equipment, including, programming, testing, signature upload/download, troubleshooting, and working with vendor as needed.
·       Oversees mail ballot processing and provisional teams.
·       Maintains mail ballot processing logs, reports, and other related documentation.
·       Oversees ballot processing room including, ballot receiving, ballot verification, ballot processing and ballot duplication.
·       Manages pre-election UOCAVA (Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act) processes in preparation for delivery of correspondence and ballots.
·       Oversees UOCAVA registrations, out-going and in-coming ballots, both electronic and paper formats and delegates assignments to maintain compliance.
·       Oversees the export and generation of daily out-going ballots, processing, and preparation for mailing.
·       Assist in User Acceptance Testing of the Statewide Voter Registration System (SCORE).
·       Ensures adequate mail ballot kit stock is maintained in designated ballot preparation area and for use at Voter Service and Polling Centers (VSPCs).
 
ADDRESSING AND MAPPING
·       Assists with street, parcel, and precinct research to correctly define all jurisdictions (political, municipal, special service) in the Voter Registration (SCORE) database.
·       Assists with mapping functions necessary for creation and maintenance of address library.
·       Assists with research to re-define district boundaries resulting from reapportionment, re-predicting, and zip code changes.
·       Cross-trained to cover responsibilities of Mapping and Addressing Coordinator.
 


EDUCATION and/or EXPERIENCE: 
·       HS Diploma or GED and 18 months of experience in the conduct of elections.
·       Associates Degree in Business Management, Public Administration, or similar field preferred or equivalent combination of education and experience.
·       Ability to meet continuing education requirements set by the state and the Douglas County Clerk & Recorder's Office.
·       Ability to meet technical training requirements because of legislation and market demand.
 
SUPERVISION RECEIVED: 
·       This position receives limited supervision with periodic review of job performance.
           
SUPERVISORY RESPONSIBILITIES: 
·       This position assists with supervision of temporary election employees (10-15) during the election cycle.
·       This position assists with the supervision of Voter Service and Polling Centers.
 
CONSEQUENCE OF ERROR:
·       Errors in judgment or failure to achieve results can lead to serious consequences and negatively affect the function of the division, produce negative public perceptions, result in budgetary overrun, flawed decision making by Douglas County, local government entities. 
·       Additional consequences may include non-compliance with Election law and litigation.  
 
 INDEPENDENT JUDGMENT: 
·       This position requires a working knowledge of election processes, election statutes, and office procedures. 
·       Identify opportunities for process and/or productivity improvements and designs and implements changes.
·       Effectively utilize resources (reports, policies, experience, and job knowledge) to draw logical conclusions to problems.
·       Decisions are guided by governing statutes and rules, department/division policies, and operating procedures under direction of the Deputy of Elections, Operations Manager, and Lead Elections Specialist.
 
CONTACTS:
·       Frequent direct contact with managers, supervisors, other employees, and departments
·       State, County, Municipal, and Special District Elected Officials
·       Political Party Chairpersons
·       Election Managers/Supervisors in other counties
·       Candidates for Elected Offices
·       Secretary of State's Office
·       Vendors
·       Public
 
LANGUAGE SKILLS:
·       Must be able to communicate effectively in both oral and written form, as well as fluently speak, read and write English. 
·       Recognizes and used correct English grammar, punctuation, and spelling, produces written information that is appropriate for the intended audience.
·       Ability to effectively present ideas and information in a one-on-one and small to medium groups situations.
 
REASONING ABILITY: 
·       Ability to apply common sense understanding to interpret and carry out a variety of instructions in written, verbal, or diagram form.
·       Ability to manage and perform a variety of duties, often changing from one task to another of a different nature, without loss of efficiency or composure.
·       Ability to make judgments or decisions based on available information. 
·       Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.
 
OTHER SKILLS AND ABILITIES:
·       Ability to understand, interpret, explain, and comply with election law and Secretary of State rules as they relate to security and election equipment (including but not limited to Title 1 C.R.S, SoS Rules Concerning Elections).
·       Ability to work effectively both independently and in a team environment is required and utilize initiative to direct own and other's activities.
·       Ability to manage multiple activities concurrently, allocating time to each according to prioritization is required.
·       Ability to add, subtracts, multiply and divide into all units of measure, using whole numbers, common fractions and decimals.
·       Proficient skill levels in most current Microsoft Office Suite, including Outlook, Word, Excel, PowerPoint.
·       Previous use of SharePoint preferred.
·       Perform general typing, filing and collating functions.
·       Competencies in creating, evaluating, and improving business processes.
·       Excellent analytical, reasoning, and troubleshooting abilities.
·       Practice and promote teamwork at all levels.
·       Establish and maintain effective work relationships.
 
CERTIFICATES, LICENSES, REGISTRATIONS:
·       Must have and maintain a valid Colorado Driver's License and complying Colorado Insurance.
·       US citizenship required.
·       Must pass state and/or national criminal background check annually.
·       Must currently have Secretary of State Election Certification and maintain certification on a bi-annual basis.
 
The ability to successfully complete pre-employment screening that may include but is not limited to: reference checks, criminal background (including fingerprinting through a national database), motor vehicle record search, and drug screen is required.
 


PHYSICAL DEMANDS:
·       Required to stand, walk, sit, talk, hear, and drive. 
·       Specific vision abilities required by this job include vision and the ability to adjust focus. 
·       Occasional heavy lifting 35 pounds or more.
·       Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions.
 
WORK ENVIRONMENT:
·       Work is generally performed in an office or warehouse environment.
·       Travel to meetings, conferences, classes and other activities may be required.
·       Subject to blackout periods for planned time off lasting up to three months at a time. Typically this timeframe may begin 60 days prior to Election Day and may end 30 days past Election Day. Election Deputy, Operations Manager, and/or County Clerk and Recorder, based on workloads and demands, may identify additional blackout periods with little notice.
·       Extended work hours may be required to include evenings, weekends and holidays.
·       Must be able to adhere to the established Mission, Vision, and Values of the Clerk and Recorder's Office.
 
In the event of an emergency/disaster in or near the County, all County employees are expected to make every effort to be available to assist the County Manager, Elected/Appointed Officials and Department Directors to ensure the continued operation of any and all necessary County functions.  This may mean being available to perform additional duties and hours beyond what is normally required.  In the event that an exempt employee does work more than 40 hours a week in support of County operations during an emergency, such employee may receive overtime or other appropriate wage compensation in accordance with existing County policies or at the discretion of the County.
 