The incumbent of this position serves as a Senior Election Subject Matter Expert (SME) with the U.S. Election Assistance Commission (EAC), established under the Help America Vote Act (HAVA) of 2002.
The incumbent of this position serves as a Senior Election Subject Matter Expert (SME) with the U.S. Election Assistance Commission (EAC), established under the Help America Vote Act (HAVA) of 2002.
Compensation will reflect candidate's locality. AD-0301, Pay Band III
This job will close when we have received 100 applications which may be sooner than the closing date. Must be able to obtain a Secret Clearance.
HAVA was enacted to establish a program to provide funds to States to replace punch-card voting systems, to establish the Election Assistance Commission to assist States with the administration of Federal elections, to otherwise assist with the administration of certain Federal election laws and programs, and to establish voluntary voting system guidelines and guidance for States and units of local government with responsibility for the administration of Federal elections. EAC serves as a national clearinghouse and resource for information concerning the administration of Federal elections.
The incumbent is responsible for creating EAC clearinghouse material to assist Election Officials, Voters, and other stakeholders with best practices, white papers, tools, data, training materials, instructions, and any additional information that would be helpful to election administrators to assist with the administration of elections. The incumbent will provide expert guidance regarding election administration that touches all facets of the agency to serve EAC stakeholders. The agency is filling multiple positions with this vacancy.
Under the overall direction of the Chief Election Information Officer and the Clearinghouse Director, the Senior Election SME is responsible for:
Bachelor's or higher degree in a related field is preferred.
You will be evaluated for this job based on how well you meet the qualifications above.
In describing your experience, please be clear and specific. We will not make assumptions regarding your experience.
1. Eligibility and Minimum Qualifications
We will review your submitted resume and documents to determine if you meet the eligibility and minimum qualification requirements. You will be rated as ineligible if you are outside of the area of consideration (i.e., who may apply) or your application is missing any required documents. If, after reviewing your resume and/or supporting documentation, a determination is made that you have inflated or falsified your qualifications, education, eligibility claims, and/or experience, this is cause for disqualification. Please follow all instructions carefully when applying, errors or omissions may affect your eligibility.
2. Referral and Selection
If you are found to be amongst the most highly qualified applicants, you will be referred to the selecting official. As part of the assessment and selection process, the selecting official may invite you to participate in a structured interview.
The U.S. Election Assistance Commission performs pre-employment reference checks as an assessment method used in the hiring process to verify information provided by a candidate (e.g., on resume or during interview or hiring process); gain additional knowledge regarding a candidate's abilities; and assist a hiring manager with making a final selection for a position.
Resume: Federal positions must include series, grade, and step. Additionally, current or former federal employees must submit their most recent performance appraisal, and their last Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50). All positions must include starting and ending dates of employment (month and year) and hours worked per week. Duties you performed must be listed under each individual job title to match your experiences with the positions held.
Education must be accredited by an accrediting institution recognized by the U.S. Department of Education in order for it to be credited towards qualifications. Therefore, provide only the attendance and/or degrees from schools accredited by accrediting institutions recognized by the U.S. Department of Education.
Failure to provide all of the required information as stated in this vacancy announcement may result in an ineligible rating or may affect the overall rating.
Applicants must submit their application package via email to: resumes@eac.gov.
Please include the job title and announcement number in the subject line of the email. You must submit your application package by email to the resumes@eac.gov mailbox. You will not submit your application package through the USAJOBS portal.
Your application package must be received by the closing date of the announcement and must include the following:
1. Resume.
2. For current or former federal employees, you must submit a copy of:
Once online application packages have been submitted (including all required documents) and the vacancy announcement closes, we will review applications to ensure qualification and eligibility requirements are met. Candidates referred for an interview will be notified and be contacted directly by the Office of Human Resources.
The Federal hiring process is set up to be fair and transparent. Please read the following guidance.