=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: State Division Administrator 17 - Election Administration
Salary: $97,645.00 - $132,749.00 YEAR
Location: Lansing, MI, MI, 48909
Employer: State of Michigan
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2020-08-23
Job Type: Permanent Full Time
Job Number: 2301-20-EL330
Department: Department of State
Opening Date: 08/24/2020
Closing Date: 9/9/2020 11:59 PM Eastern
Bargaining Unit: NON-EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTED EMPLOYEE (NERE)

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===



POSITION DUTIES - This position serves as the Director of the Election Administration Division. The Division is responsible for programs that provide administrative support and training for approximately 1600 county, city and township election officials on issues related to the conduct of elections in Michigan. This position is responsible for managing and overseeing multiple complex work units and other professional staff; Training programs for clerks and election staff throughout the state, contracts, purchasing and monitoring of elections-related vendor products, and Bureau-wide coordination of major projects and initiatives.

APPOINTMENT TYPE/BENEFITS - This position is Full-Time. Therefore, you would be eligible to participate in the benefits offered by the state. 

Position Description  (Download PDF reader)

MDOSJOBS

 

Education
Possession of a bachelor's degree in any major.

Experience
Two years of experience as a professional manager or program/staff specialist, or equivalent experience.

Education level typically acquired through completion of high school and three years of
safety and regulatory or law enforcement experience at the 14 level; or, two years of
safety and regulatory or law enforcement experience at the 15 level, may be substituted
for the education and experience requirements.

Accommodations
If you require a reasonable accommodation to participate in the application or selection processes, please contact the ADA coordinator (Download PDF reader) for the agency that posted this position vacancy.

State employment benefits include everything from health insurance to retirement income and can be worth 25% to 50% of salary depending on wages and benefits.This page briefly explains some benefits provided under Civil Service rules or union contracts.Leave TimeFull-time employees receive between 15 and 35 vacation days per year. Employees also receive 13 sick days per year and 8 hours of leave to participate in certain school functions or community activities. Employees may also qualify for up to 12 weeks of paid or unpaid leave for certain family or medical situations.HolidaysState employees receive 12 or 13 scheduled paid holidays each year, including New Year’s Eve, New Year’s Day, Thanksgiving, Christmas Eve, Christmas Day, Memorial Day, and Veterans Day.Alternative Work SchedulesFlexible work schedules and telecommuting options are available in many jobs.Insurance and Other BenefitsEligible employees can choose from a variety of health insurance plans, including a PPO, HMOs, and a High Deductible Health Plan with HSA (effective January 1, 2021). Other coverage includes vision, dental, life, and long-term disability insurance, as well as tax-deferred Flexible Spending Accounts (FSAs) for health, prescription, dental and vision eligible expenses, dependent care expenses, and Qualified Transportation Fringe Benefits (QTFB). Employees also have the option to purchase additional life, accidental death, and long-term care insurance, auto/home insurance, identify theft protection, and legal services.Paid Parental LeaveProvides eligible individuals up to 12 weeks of paid leave immediately following birth or adoption of a child.Deferred CompensationEmployees may invest income in a tax-deferred retirement investment program. The state offers two optional deferred compensation plans, the 457 and 401(k). Employees decide the amount deducted from their paychecks.RetirementEmployees receive a minimum 4% state contribution toward their retirement fund. If an employee elects to contribute more, the state will match up to 3%. The Office of Retirement Services administers two different retirement plans for State of Michigan employees: Defined Benefit (DB) and Defined Contribution (DC). New hires can also receive up to a 2% employer match into a Personal Healthcare Fund and a lump-sum credit to a tax-deferred account if eligible. More information is available at the Office of Retirement Services.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        STDIVADM - Do you possess one of the following?

A bachelor's degree or higher in any major AND at least two years of post-degree experience as a professional manager or program/staff specialist.  If so, please attach a copy of your official college transcripts. 

OR 

At least one year of professional experience in the state classified service AND at least two years of experience as a professional manager or program/staff specialist

OR

at least an educational level typically acquired through the completion of high school AND at least three years of safety and regulatory or law enforcement experience at the 14 level; or at least two years of safety and regulatory or law enforcement experience at the 15 level.
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Are you related to anyone working at the Department of State (Secretary of State)?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        If you answered "Yes" to question #2 please list the name of each relative. If you answered "No" to question #2, please enter "none".
        
        
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        If you qualify based on your education, as listed in the alternate education and experience section, did you attach your "official" college transcripts (unofficial transcripts are not acceptable)?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Do you have at least five years of professional experience in elections administration or an election-related field?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        How many years experience do you have in election programs?
        
        
                None
                Less than 5 years of experience
                5-10 years of experience
                More than 10 years of experience
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Please describe in detail your experience with election programs. If you do not possess this experience, please enter "N/A."
        
        
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Do you have experience in election law/code?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        If you answered "yes" to question #8, please describe your experience in election law/code. If you do not possess this experience please enter "N/A."
        
        
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have working with state and local election officials?
        
        
                None
                Less than 5 years of experience
                5-10 years of experience
                More than 10 years of experience
        
    


    
        

11

    

    
        Describe your experience working with state and local officials (election officials or other officials). If you do not possess this experience, please enter "N/A."
        
        
        
    


    
        

12

    

    
        Describe your experience managing staff; in particular, staff with expertise in elections. If you do not possess this experience, please enter "N/A."
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        