APPROXIMATE ANNUAL SALARY -
$66,628.08 to
$100,161.36
PAY GRADE: 41
The salary range indicated in this announcement is based on the Employee/Employer retirement compensation schedule. An employer-only option is available at a reduced salary range. Generally, salaries start at the lowest level of a step 1 and increase with each year of service to the highest level of a step 10.
For more information on benefit and retirement programs, please see the sections below.
In order to receive consideration, applicants must indicate their availability for any work type, travel, and location requirements listed.
JOB INFORMATION
Work Type: Permanent, full time vacancies as they may occur
in this geographical location.
Under administrative direction of the Deputy Secretary of State for Elections, the HAVA Administrator provides
overall leadership, operation, planning, and management of the State's federal elections pursuant to the Help
America Vote Act (HAVA) and related federal and State voting rights laws; provides analysis and interpretation
of State and federal laws, regulations and statutes related to elections administration; represents the division and
makes presentations to various boards, legislative committees, community organizations and the public. The incumbent will manage the Help America Vote Act (HAVA) grant and in this capacity will work with members of the State Elections Division, county registrar of voters, and other elections related positions in the federal, state, and county governments to manage the application of the HAVA grant and support the conduct of state and federal elections.
This position will be a key member of the State elections team and will be primarily responsible for the analysis and interpretation of federal and state elections law. This position will supervise up to six other elections-related employees. State employee benefits included medical, dental, vision care, life and disability insurance programs; eleven paid holidays per year; three weeks of annual leave; three weeks of sick leave; state defined benefit retirement plan; and a tax-sheltered deferred compensation plan is available. State employees do not contribute to Social Security; however, a small Medicare deduction is required. The Secretary of State's Office is located in downtown Carson City, near beautiful Lake Tahoe in Northern Nevada which offers a destination location to live, work and play. The State of Nevada is committed to Equal Employment Opportunity/Affirmative Action in recruitment of its employees and does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion or belief, age, disability, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, domestic partnership, genetic information (GINA), or compensation and/or wages.
***THIS RECRUITMENT MAY CLOSE AT ANY TIME BASED ON THE AMOUNT OF APPLICATIONS RECEIVED. QUALIFIED APPLICANTS ARE ENCOURAGED TO APPLY AS SOON AS POSSIBLE.***
In order to be qualified, you must meet the following requirements:
Education and Experience (Minimum Qualifications)
Bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university in public or business administration, communications, law or related field and five years of progressively responsible professional experience managing diverse programs which required budget development and management; coordination of program services and activities with community organizations and governmental agencies; development of policy; and making public presentations. Two years of the required experience must have included supervising professional staff; OR an equivalent combination of education and experience. When
determining equivalencies, one year of relevant experience may be substituted for two years of education.
Special Notes
This position requires work on evenings and weekends, including State holidays, depending upon the dates of elections.
Special Requirements
This position requires specialized skills which will be identified at the time of recruitment.
Some travel in-state and out-of-state is required.
The Examination
Application Evaluation Exam
The exam will consist of an application evaluation. It is essential that applications include detailed information with time frames regarding education and experience. The most qualified applicants will be contacted by the hiring agency for interview. The hiring agency may require specific skills related testing as part of the interviewing process.
The following additional questions are part of this Recruitment
1) Please describe your experience with the HAVA grant.
2) Do you have experience in the execution of a state or federal elections? Please describe.
3) Do you have experience interpreting federal and state election law? Please describe.
Help us reach qualified candidates! Refer a friend by clicking here: Email
Direct Inquiries or Correspondence to:
Division of Human Resource Management Northern Nevada 515 East Musser Street, First Floor Carson City, Nevada 89701-4204
TDD for the Hearing Impaired (800) 326-6868
Division of Human Resource Management Southern Nevada 7251 Amigo St, Suite 120 Las Vegas, NV 89119
TDD for the Hearing Impaired (800) 326-6868
The State of Nevada is an equal opportunity employer dedicated to building diverse, inclusive, and innovative work environments with employees who reflect our communities and enthusiastically serve them. All applicants are considered without regard to race, color, national origin, religion or belief, age, disability, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, domestic partnership, genetic information (GINA), or compensation and/or wages.