=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Administrative Specialist II (Elections Specialist)
Salary: $22.57 - $28.75 HOUR
Location: WA 98057-2906, WA, WA, 98104
Employer: King County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2021-03-09
Job Type: Career Service, Full Time, 35 hrs/week
Job Number: 2021RL13014
Department: KCE - King County Elections
Division: Election Services
Opening Date: 03/09/2021
Closing Date: 3/23/2021 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Non-Exempt
Bargaining Unit: F1A : L117-Admin

BENEFITS:
  • Medical, dental, and vision coverage: King County pays 100% of the premiums for eligible employees and family members
  • Life and disability insurance: employees are provided basic coverage and given the opportunity to purchase additional insurance for both the employee and eligible dependents
  • Retirement: King County employees are eligible to participate in a pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems and a 457(b) deferred-compensation plan
  • Transportation program and ORCA transit pass
  • 12 paid holidays each year (plus 2 personal holidays)
  • Generous vacation and paid sick leave
  • Paid parental leave, family and medical leaves, and volunteer leave
  • Flexible Spending Account
  • Wellness programs
  • Onsite gyms and activity centers
  • Employee giving program
  • Employee assistance programs
  • Flexible schedules and telecommuting options, depending on position
  • Training and career development programs

For additional information about employee benefits please visit our
Benefits, Payroll, and Retirement Page
.
This is a general description of the benefits offered to eligible King County employees, and every effort has been made to ensure its accuracy.  If any information on this document conflicts with the provisions of a collective bargaining agreement (CBA), the CBA prevails.  Also, in the event of any incorrect information in this document, applicable laws, policies, rules, CBAs, or official plan documents will prevail.
NOTE:
Benefits for Term Limited Temporary (TLT) or Short Term Temporary (STT) positions, including leave eligibility and/or participation in the pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems, will vary based upon the terms and details of the position. Short Term Temporary positions are not eligible for an ORCA transit pass.
For inquiries about the specifics of this position, please contact the recruiter identified on this job posting.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===


This is an amazing opportunity to be engaged in the election process!
 
The Department of Elections - is searching for energetic and resourceful professionals who like to "get stuff done". The Administrative Specialist II positions in the Election Services Division combine an exciting, fast-paced environment with the opportunity to cultivate talents and apply a variety of skills.  The ideal candidate will have a desire to help ensure the democratic process through public service.  They will thrive in an innovative environment and will not hesitate to roll up both sleeves, work hard, have fun, and get the job done.
 
King County Elections (KCE) manages voter registrations and elections for more than 1.3 million voters in King County, the largest vote-by-mail county in the United States. KCE's mission is to conduct fair, open and accurate elections.  As a leader in providing inclusive elections, KCE is focused on three key priorities – (1) actively identifying and working to remove barriers to voting at both the individual and community level, (2) strengthening relationships with community and governmental partners, and (3) creating a culture of professional growth and development, openness and inclusion. Learn more at www.kingcounty.gov/elections.aspx .
 
Who May Apply: This position is open to all qualified applicants.  Applications will be screened for qualifications and completion of all the required materials and forms.  The most competitive applicants may be contacted for further steps in the selection process.
 
Work Schedule: This position is subject to the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) and is overtime eligible. The workweek is typically 35 hours per week, 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. We require the flexibility to work additional hours during peak periods of the Election cycle that may occur outside of typical business hours.  
 
Materials Required to Apply: A completed online King County employment application at www.kingcounty.gov/jobs and a Resume and Cover Letter is required with your submission.  The cover letter should describe how your skills and experience meet or exceed the requirements of the job.
   

King County Elections believes in working in a very agile working environment. Creating a team that delivers now and in the future is very important. There may be various job duties that you could be assigned to including:
 

Provide excellent customer service to internal and external customers in person, via telephone, and via e-mail by processing voter registrations, communicating election program information and explaining election procedures, guidelines and regulations. 
Perform production-level computer work which includes accurate data entry and retrieving and editing records.
Organize and coordinate work activities and assist with providing training and one-on-one instruction to diverse staff. 
Provide assistance with ballot delivery including proofing Voter's Pamphlets and ballots. 
Set up records and file documents in both electronic and paper formats. 
Review documents for proper format, accuracy, completion, eligibility, and other legal guidelines. 
Utilize spreadsheets, word documents and reports to track and document performance data. 
Research and resolve questions from staff, citizens and stakeholders. 
Document and improve work processes, procedures and instructions. 
Assist with ballot collection by accompanying a driver to empty ballots from ballot drop boxes and securely transport them back to the elections office.



Attention to detail and proofreading skills. 
Ability to maintain the integrity and confidentiality of the position. 
Commitment to providing excellent verbal and written customer service to everyone. This can be demonstrated through establishing and maintaining effective relationships, and building rapport with a variety of people through active, attentive listening, and respect for differing backgrounds and points of view. 
Demonstrated comfort with the use of personal computers, email and electronic record filing systems to create correspondence and spreadsheets, send and receive information, access and analyze data, and develop reports and outreach materials. 
Ability to work in a fast-paced environment. 
Ability to follow directions with strict rules and regulations. 
Ability to gain knowledge of elections terminology. 
Ability to stand or sit for periods of time as required. 
Ability to bend, kneel, stand, reach, climb, stoop, squat, lift and/or move 25 lbs. of ballots.

 Desired Qualifications:

Experience with Microsoft Office Suite – specifically Word, Excel, SharePoint, and MS Teams. 
Initiative in taking on new tasks and projects. 
Familiarity with diverse communities and direct community based customer service experience is preferred.

Travel to work locations throughout King County with limited or no public transportation services is required. A valid Washington State Driver's License is required to operate King County vehicles.
 
UNION:  This position is represented by Teamsters Local 117, Professional & Technical and Administrative Employees.
 
 Temporary Telecommuting Requirement 
 Some of the work associated with this position will be performed remotely, at least through July 5, 2021 in compliance with King County’s telecommuting mandate.  Employees will be provided with a County issued laptop and must maintain a workspace with an internet connection where they can reliably perform work and remain available and responsive during scheduled work hours.  Employees must reside in WA state and within a reasonable distance to their King County worksite to respond to workplace reporting requirements.  There will be situations where the employee is required to report to a County worksite.  Please note that when an employee conducts work that is likely to bring them in contact with another individual, safety precautions are required by the department in alignment with the Public Health Directive from the Seattle & King County Public Health Officer.
 
To support employees during this time King County has a robust collection of tools and resources to support working remotely. The individual selected for this opportunity will be joining an innovative and progressive team. King County is doing its part to reduce the spread of COVID-19 and remains committed to reducing our carbon footprint.
 
Forbes recently named King County as one of Washington State's best employers.
   
Together, with leadership and our employees, we're changing the way government delivers service and winning national recognition as a model of excellence. Are you ready to make a difference? Come join the team dedicated to serving one of the nation's best places to live, work and play.
 
Guided by our "True North", we are making King County a welcoming community where every person can thrive. We value diversity, inclusion and belonging in our workplace and workforce. To reach this goal we are committed to workforce equity. Equitable recruiting, support, and retention is how we will obtain the highest quality workforce in our region; a workforce that shares and will help advance our guiding principles--we are one team; we solve problems; we focus on the customer; we drive for results; we are racially just; we respect all people; we lead the way; and we are responsible stewards. We encourage people of all backgrounds and identities to apply, including Native American and people of color, immigrants, refugees, women, LGBTQ+, people living with disabilities, and veterans.
 
King County is an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Employer
No person is unlawfully excluded from employment opportunities based on race, color, religion, national origin, sex (including gender identity, sexual orientation and pregnancy), age, genetic information, disability, veteran status, or other protected class. Our EEO policy applies to all employment actions, including but not limited to recruitment, hiring, selection for training, promotion, transfer, demotion, layoff, termination, rates of pay or other forms of compensation.
 
To Apply 
If you are interested in pursuing this position, please follow the application instructions carefully. If you need this announcement in an alternate language or format, would like to request accommodation or assistance in the application or assessment process or if you have questions please contact your recruiter listed on this job announcement.
 
  For more information regarding this recruitment, please contact:  
  Reeshema Lewis  
  Sr. HR Business Partner  
  Email: Reeshema.Lewis@kingcounty.gov
  Phone: 206-263-8413