=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Early Voting Assistant Manager (Administrative Assistant V)
Salary: $52,220.69 - $87,034.27 YEAR
Location: FAIRFAX (EJ32), VA, VA, 22035
Employer: Fairfax County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2023-10-27
Job Type: FT Hourly W BN
Job Number: 23-03153
Department: Office of Elections
Opening Date: 10/28/2023
Closing Date: 11/3/2023 11:59 PM Eastern
Pay Grade: S19
Posting Type: Open to General Public

BENEFITS:
  • Medical/Vision/Dental Insurance Coverage
  • Group Term Life Insurance
  • Long Term Disability
  • LiveWell Program
  • Flexible Spending Programs
  • Paid Leave (annual, sick, parental, volunteer activity, and more!)
  • Paid Holidays
  • Contributory Retirement Plan
  • Deferred Compensation
  • Employee Assistance Program
  • Employees' Child Care Center
  • Commuter Benefit Program
  • Continuous Learning Opportunities

NOTE:  Fairfax County Government is a qualifying employer under the Public Service Loan Forgiveness program. For more information about the PSLF program: https://studentaid.gov/manage-loans/forgiveness-cancellation/public-service
For additional details please visit the County's benefits webpage.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Serves as the assistant manager for all early voting operations in Fairfax County, the largest voting jurisdiction in Virginia and one of the 30 largest voting jurisdictions in the United States. Under the supervision of the Deputy Registrar for Early Voting, plays a pivotal role in ensuring the smooth and efficient operations of the early voting process in Fairfax County, including preparing and supervising 16 early voting sites that are each open for 10 to 45 days before election day.

The ideal candidate will bring a blend of administrative acumen, supervisory experience, and an understanding of election procedures and policies. Your days will be diverse, ranging from hands-on management of voting supplies and equipment to resolving voter inquiries with professionalism and grace. Your leadership will help create a supportive and efficient environment where staff can focus on providing an accessible and straightforward early voting experience for all Fairfax County residents.

This opportunity is perfect for an individual who thrives in a fast-paced, dynamic work environment and is dedicated to upholding the integrity and smooth operation of the early voting process in Virginia. With your commitment, expertise, and diligent work, you will become an indispensable member of our Early Voting division, contributing significantly to the democratic process, and making a positive impact in the community.

Job responsibilities include:

Assist in the overall management and operation of early voting satellite locations, ensuring smooth and efficient daily operations.
Coordinate with 16 early voting sites to make room reservations, change locks, receive voting equipment deliveries, and host early voting activities daily for 10 to 45 days before each election.
Help manage approximately 250 early voting election workers (poll workers).
Collaborate in the assignment of election officers (poll workers) to respective sites, considering factors such as past experience, party affiliation requirements, and other legal or statutory requirements.
Help recruit and onboard new poll workers.
Prepare essential forms, signs, general supplies, and other materials.
Help prepare training slides and other training materials.
Help write detailed instructional manuals and guides for all staff.
Ensure the timely delivery and return of voting equipment and supplies to and from all early voting satellite locations.
Collaborate with IT staff to ensure optimal function of all electronic systems, including electronic pollbooks, ballot-on-demand equipment, administrative tablets, and other voting equipment used for early voting.
Use Airtable database software to manage, monitor, and evaluate all aspects of early voting operations.
Regularly update and maintain data within database to ensure all records are accurate, timely, and up to date.
Handle and resolve escalated issues from voters or poll workers efficiently and professionally.
Engage in budgetary discussions and keep track of expenses related to early voting operations.
Analyze voter turnout and engagement data to suggest improvements for future voting cycles.
Ensure that all early voting sites comply with local, state, and federal regulations and guidelines.
Stay updated on changes in voting laws or regulations that might impact early voting operations.
Develop contingency plans to address unforeseen challenges such as equipment malfunction or unexpected site closures.
Perform other duties, responsibilities, and special projects as assigned by the Early Voting Manager, adapting to the needs of the office, and taking initiative in the role.

As a member of the Office of Elections staff, participates in other activities related to election administration and voter registration on an as-needed basis. A flexible schedule is required before, during, and immediately after election day. Must be able to regularly work some evenings until 7:30 PM and some weekends before and during the 45-day early voting period for each election. Work-from-home is available for up to 2 days per week during non-election periods, but all work is in-person leading up to and during the 45-day early voting period for each election.

Note: The assigned functional areas of the position are general administration, public administration, logistics (scheduling and coordinating), customer service, and/or elections support or operations.

MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:
Any combination of education, experience, and training equivalent to the following:  
(Click on the aforementioned link to learn how Fairfax County interprets equivalencies for "Any combination, experience, and training equivalent to")

Any combination of education, experience and training equivalent to high school graduation and four years of experience providing administrative support in the assigned functional area(s).

NECESSARY SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS:
The appointee to this position will be required to complete a criminal background check to the satisfaction of the employer.

PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS:

Experience in a state or county election office and with the election process.
Experience as an election officer (poll worker) at a polling place.
Experience in supervising and managing temporary staff or poll workers.
Experience coordinating with local governmental centers, libraries, and other county facilities or similar tasks.
Demonstrated knowledge of Virginia election laws.
Excellent organizational and coordination skills.
Excellent Microsoft Office skills (Excel and Word) to develop reports and spreadsheets.
Experience using Airtable or other database software to maintain individual records.
Ability to develop strategic and contingency plans.
Ability to work extensive overtime in preparation for and during 45-day early voting period before election day.

PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS:
Work is generally sedentary, performed in a normal office environment. Duties require ability to lift, move, and assemble files and documents. Position also requires physical and mental stamina under demanding political conditions and stringent timelines. All duties performed with or without reasonable accommodations.

SELECTION PROCEDURE:
Panel interview and may include exercise.

The population of Fairfax County is very diverse where 39.8% of residents speak a language other than English at home (Spanish, Asian/Pacific Islander, Indo-European, and others) and we encourage candidates bilingual in English and a foreign language to apply to this opportunity.

Fairfax County Government prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, pregnancy, childbirth or related medical conditions, age, marital status, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetics, political affiliation, or military status in the recruitment, selection, and hiring of its workforce.

Reasonable accommodations are available to persons with disabilities during application and/or interview processes per the Americans with Disabilities Act. Contact 703-324-4900 for assistance. TTY 703-222-7314. DHREmployment@fairfaxcounty.gov EEO/AA/TTY.

#LI-JY1