=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Outreach and Education Specialist
Salary: $33.62 - $42.52 HOUR
Location: Tacoma, WA, WA, 98409
Employer: Pierce County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2023-10-27
Job Type: Career Service - Full Time
Remote Employment: Flexible/Hybrid
Job Number: 23-00765
Department: Auditor
Division: Auditor-Elections
Opening Date: 10/27/2023
Closing Date: 11/15/2023 12:00 AM Pacific

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Why It's a Great Opportunity:
The Pierce County Auditor’s Office is seeking an experienced Elections Outreach and Education Specialist to dramatically increase voter awareness and turnout. This newly tailored position has the unique opportunity to establish and implement an outreach and education program. Your engagement and drive will connect you to a variety of communities throughout Pierce County. You will register people to vote and provide diverse and equity-focused education on voting, elections and other election-specific laws, rules, and deadlines. You will coordinate events and develop partnerships to engage with key parts of the County’s nearly one million residents. This includes devising ways to communicate with the County’s approximately 550,000 registered voters, including overseas voters, voters living with disabilities, voters with non-traditional addresses, diverse language communities, and other populations.  There will be a particular focus on students. Your work also includes serving on the County’s Accessibility Awareness Committee and coordinating the County’s Jail Voting program. Partners in your effort include non-partisan community groups, library systems, and the Washington State Secretary of State’s Office. Internal teams will support your efforts for information awareness, publications, and social media. Increasing voter awareness and turning the tide of low voter turnout will be the focus here!

This is a hybrid position that—after a three-month in-office training period—includes working remotely, working in the office during times of elections, and working in the community for presentations and events. Evening and weekend work will be needed as we strive to meet our diverse community where our communities live, work and play.
 
Why It's a Great Department:
The Pierce County Auditor’s Office provides tools and resources for people to impact their community by conducting accurate and secure elections, maintaining the integrity and accessibility of public recordings, and providing reliable licensing and passport services.­­­ We are a team that promotes trust through positivity, change, innovation, and kindness.
The award-winning and innovative Pierce County Elections team conducts federal, state and local elections, maintains voter registration rolls, verifies petition signatures, manages a central Vote Center in Tacoma, manages about 50 ballot drop boxes throughout the county, publishes two local Voters’ Pamphlets each year, maintains upwards of 700 precinct lines, works collaboratively with political parties and non-partisan advocacy groups, conducts up to four elections each year, serves 114 jurisdictions (cities, towns, special purpose districts and more), and files candidates for over 500 elected offices. Pierce County is one of the top vote-by-mail counties in the United States and our Auditor and Elections team members help set policy and improve practices at the local, state, and national levels. Watch a 5-min video of how the ballot process works at Pierce County Elections.
 
How to be Successful in the Role:
Your success will be equal to your enthusiasm for elections, civic engagement, and educating others. You will be adept at developing, promoting, and implementing education campaigns across Pierce County’s diverse communities. This is a highly collaborative position that requires excellent interpersonal skills. You will establish and maintain partnerships with non-partisan community organizations, local jurisdictions, and non-governmental organizations. You will need to be comfortable working with diverse populations. At the end of the day, you are motivated to get things done and you take joy in seeing progress made toward shared goals.

Your Future in this Role: 
As an Elections Specialist, you will have the ability to immediately contribute to the success of Pierce County Elections. The Pierce County Auditor’s Office promotes professional development and encourages staff to participate in the County’s custom Leadership Certification program. There are also other training and learning opportunities to ensure your success.
 
Core Daily Responsibilities:


Coordinates and participates in the activities of a specialty in the Elections Division; determines work schedules and methods to expediting work-flow; issues instructions; and monitors work for accuracy and compliance to procedures and policies in specialty area assigned.
Coordinates, organizes, and documents all legal aspects of an assigned specialty required to hold elections.
Oversees all aspects of voter registration. Assists customers and candidates in all election activities.
Oversees all aspects of ballot processing, including mailing out, receipt, opening, and preparing for ballot scanning.
Oversees all activities related to voting machines and all supplies needed to conduct all elections. Prepares for an election following all federal laws and the Revised Codes of Washington (RCW’s) and Washington Administrative Codes (WAC’s), and County Code addressing election activities.
Creates, designs, and maintains the Office of the Pierce County Auditor’s Elections Division website.
A classification description with a more detailed list of essential functions can be found here.

Minimum Qualifications:


Four years of general clerical experience required.
Additional education or related experience may be substituted equally for the recruiting requirements.
A resume and cover letter are required for this position.
Preferred Qualifications:

A bachelor’s degree in community relations, communications, education, public policy, or other related field.
Three years of experience working in an outreach capacity with responsibility for events and programs.
Certification as an Elections Administrator under (WAC) and (RCW) regulations.
Ability to manage and facilitate education/community outreach activities.
Strong interpersonal and communication skills and the ability to work effectively with a wide range of constituencies in a diverse community.
Ability to gather data, analyze information, and prepare reports.
Experience in elections.
Experience working in a lead or supervisory role.

To be considered for this opportunity please:


Complete and submit a detailed online Pierce County Employment Application by selecting "APPLY" above or go to:   www.piercecountywa.org/jobs. 
If you have a question about this opportunity, please email the Recruitment Team at PCHRRecruit@piercecountywa.gov and specify the Job Number and Title. 
If you do not have internet access, you may visit your local public library or any WorkSource location and use their computers.
Individuals needing accommodation in the application, testing process or need this job announcement in an alternative format may call Human Resources at (253) 798-7480, at least two days prior to the need.  
This is a competitive selection process. Your application will be reviewed and evaluated for the quality and quantity of education/experience in the areas listed. Applicants whose qualifications most closely correspond to the County's needs will be eligible for further consideration. Notification of application status normally occurs 2 to 3 weeks after the closing date. Short notice may be given to applicants to participate in further selection processes which may include assessments, phone screen, and interviews.
 
At Pierce County, diversity, equity, and inclusion means commitment, not a single step. We strive to foster an inclusive environment that supports equitable access to opportunities throughout your career. We want to recruit, develop, and maintain a talented workforce from various backgrounds, cultures, lifestyles, and perspectives, committed to our vision. Employees of the County have local, direct, and visible impact in our diverse community. Will you join us in keeping Pierce County a great place to live, work, and raise a family?

Employee benefits are not just about the kind of services you get, they are also about how much you may have to pay out of pocket. Pierce County offers a competitive benefits package that offers flexibility and peace of mind. We are proud to offer Employee Resource Groups, a focus on professional development in our Leadership Training Program, and a County Book Club. We understand that your life revolves around more than just your career and that your priority is making sure that you and your family maintain health and financial security. That's why choice is a key component of our benefits package. We have a selection of health and retirement plans, paid leave, staff training and other compensation benefits that you can mix and match to meet your current and future needs.Our benefits:Vacation (Annual Leave)After approximately six months, employees receive six days of vacation leave. Since we value your experience, the amount of vacation you can accrue increases the longer you work with us. Vacation accrues on a bi-weekly basis for full-time employees as follows:Vacation Accruals:During years 1-3, 12 DaysDuring years 4-7, 16 DaysDuring years 8-13, 20 DaysDuring years 14-18, 23 DaysDuring years 19, 24 DaysDuring years 20, 25 DaysDuring years 21, 26 DaysDuring years 22, 27 DaysDuring years 23, 28 DaysDuring years 24, 29 DaysDuring years 25 & thereafter, 30 DaysA maximum of 45 days may be carried from one year into the next.Pro-Rated for Part-Time based on % of 1.0 FTE.Military Leave:Pierce County has a proud history of supporting the armed forces and provides members of the armed forces with up to 21 days paid military leave per state fiscal year.Holidays:Some full-time employees are entitled to eleven paid holidays as follows:   New Year's Day - January 1Martin Luther King, Jr's birthday - Third Monday in JanuaryPresident's Day - Third Monday in FebruaryMemorial Day - Last Monday in MayJuneteenth - June 19Independence Day - July 4Labor Day - First Monday in SeptemberVeteran's Day - November 11Thanksgiving Day - Fourth Thursday in November & Friday afterChristmas Day - December 25Personal Holidays:Regular full-time and regular part-time employees, and employees occupying limited duration positions, shall also receive two additional paid personal holidays. Paid personal holidays shall only accrue for those employees on County payroll as of January 1 of each year or the first work day following January 1 and must be taken during the calendar year in which it was accrued.Furlough:Some Pierce County employees may be designated to receive 10 "furlough" days per year in lieu of holidays. Furlough days are available for use on January 1 and must be scheduled and taken within the calendar year. Employees who leave employment with Pierce County must reimburse the employer for used furlough days based upon the number of remaining holidays.Sick Leave:Sick leave accrues on a bi-weekly basis, at the rate of one day per month.Insurance Benefits:Employees and families are covered by medical (including vision), dental and basic life insurance.  There are multiple medical plans with very affordable monthly premiums that offer coverage throughout Pierce County.  Employees are eligible to enroll each year in a flexible spending plan, which enables them to use tax-deferred dollars toward their health care and dependent care expenses.  Employees also have the opportunity to participate in supplemental life and long term disability insurance plans.   To view premium rates, summary of benefit coverage, and other information, please visit the Pierce County Health Benefits website.Retirement and Deferred Compensation:Pierce County employees are members of the State of Washington's Department of Retirement System (DRS) and depending on the position or previous DRS enrollment will be able to enroll in one of many programs DRS offers.  For additional information, check out the Department of Retirement Systems' web site.Employees also have the ability to participate in the Nationwide Deferred Compensation Plan.  This is a supplemental retirement savings program  that allows you control over the amount of pre-tax salary dollars you defer as well as the flexibility to choose between multiple investment options.Social Security:All Pierce County employees are covered by the federal Social Security and Medicare systems. The county and the employee pay an equal amount into the system.Miscellaneous Benefits:Please visit Pierce County's Benefits website for more information.Telework/Remote Options:Some departments allow for telework or work-from-home options dependent on the body of work. Learn more about our telework policy here. **All employees are required to be WA State residents after 30 days of employment.