=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Registrar of Voters
Salary: $150,326.18 - $265,836.06 YEAR
Location: Riverside, CA, 92502-1569
Employer: County of Riverside
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2023-10-23
Job Type: Regular
Job Number: 23-74833-01
Department: Registrar of Voters
Division: Registrar of Voters
Opening Date: 10/23/2023
Closing Date: 11/29/2023 11:59 PM Pacific

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

View the Recruiting Brochure (Download PDF reader)
The County of Riverside is seeking a highly experienced elections executive to serve as the Registrar of Voters. This position is located in Riverside. The Director position is appointed by the Board of Supervisors and serves under direction of the County Executive Officer.  

The incumbent has the primary responsibility for conducting Primary, General, and Special Elections within the County of Riverside, and directing the operations of a department with more than forty dedicated and hard-working permanent employees, and more than nine hundred temporary employees, which are a critical component of the services provided each election. This responsibility includes the successful execution of all components of the County’s election management process, including: registration of voters, poll worker coordination and training, polling place establishment aligned with any accessibility requirements, ballot creation, voting system security, ballot processing and tallying, the certification of election returns to the Secretary of State, and the provision of candidate services such as candidate filing. Furthermore, this position has the sole responsibility for ensuring that election processes are in full compliance with County, State, and federal legal requirements.

To learn more about this amazing opportunity, please view the The Registrar of Voters Brochure. (Download PDF reader)

Meet the Team!
The County of Riverside's Registrar of Voters serves its residents by ensuring the electoral process be conducted professionally, consistently demonstrating neutrality and non-partisan decision-making, based upon a thorough knowledge of and compliance with all election laws by administering them timely, responsively and with integrity.

• Plan, organize, and direct the operations of the Office of the Registrar of Voters; conduct all Primary, General, and Special Elections.

• Direct section supervisors responsible for the registration and notification of voters, the filing of candidates' papers and measures, the preparation of ballots, the operation of the polling places, the counting and certifying of votes, and other activities related to elections.

• Direct the preparation and maintenance of records related to voting activities, including the registration affidavits, recapitulation and summary of data, and precinct boundaries and maps.

• Supply information to news media and others concerning registrations, elections, and other matters.

• Prepare records and reports, and submit necessary information concerning voters and election results to the Secretary of State.

• Document and direct the arrangements for the printing of ballots.

• Coordinate the handling of special elections with school and other special district personnel, and of municipal elections upon request of the municipalities.

• Review petitions for initiatives, referendums and nomination papers, and direct the comparing of signatures of petitioners with affidavits for authenticity.

• Evaluate existing organization, personnel utilization, and work methods and procedures used in the Office of the Registrar of Voters.

• Develop modifications to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of operations within the framework of legal requirements.

• Administer the department's resources by identifying the staffing, office space, and equipment needs.

• Prepare the budget for the operation of the department.

Education: Graduation from an accredited college or university with a Bachelor's degree in public or business administration or a closely related field.

Experience: Five years full-time managerial, administrative, or supervisory experience in a governmental agency, with at least two years desirable in administering a voter registration or elections program or supervising a staff engaged in voter registration and election activities, at the municipal, County level or above.

Knowledge of: The basic functions and procedures of a public elections operation; the laws governing elections within the State of California; the principles of personnel management and supervision; modern office methods, clerical procedures, and office reproduction equipment.

Ability to: Plan, organize, and direct a staff engaged in a variety of specialized and clerical activities; interpret and explain the laws, regulations, policies, and procedures applicable to the functions of the Registrar of Voters; analyze situations accurately, generate alternatives and adopt effective courses of action; prepare budget estimates and monitor expenditures; establish and maintain working relationships with staff and the public; prepare clear and concise reports and records.

This class has been designated At-Will by the Board of Supervisors, in accordance with the provisions provided under Article 6, Section 601E (1) of the County Management Resolution and serves at the pleasure of the County Board of Supervisors.

This class has been deemed eligible for the Performance Recognition Plan as set forth under Article 3, Section 311(A) of the County Management Resolution. 

The County of Riverside welcomes candidates from diverse backgrounds, experiences, and perspectives to apply. 

The position will remain posted until filled. The initial review of applications will occur on November 9, 2023.

To be considered, please electronically submit your application, including resume. Resumes should reflect related work experience as well as details of years and months of positions held.

For questions regarding this recruitment, please contact: Cameron Hacker at (951) 955-6968 or CHacker@rivco.org.

Applications will be screened based on criteria outlined in this brochure. Candidates with the most relevant qualifications will be invited to participate in a formal interview process.

Extensive reference and background checks will be completed on the selected candidate.  

________________________________________________________________________________________

APPLICATION INFORMATION

Veteran's Preference 
The County has a Veterans Preference Policy applicable to new hires. To qualify, upload a copy of your (or your spouse's) Member-4 Form DD-214 indicating dates of service, and a copy of your spouse's letter of disability (if applicable) with your application. For privacy reasons, it is recommended that you remove your social security information from the document(s). A Human Resources Representative will review the materials and determine if you qualify for veterans' preference. The Veterans Preference Policy, C-3 is available here:  https://rivcocob.org/board-policies 

 

Reasonable Accommodations
The County of Riverside is committed to providing reasonable accommodation to applicants as required by the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and Fair Employment and Housing Act (FEHA). Qualified individuals with disabilities who need a reasonable accommodation during the application or selection process should contact the recruiter for the position noted above. For additional information and/or to obtain the appropriate form for requesting a reasonable accommodation, please visit the Disability Access Office web page located at: https://rc-hr.com/disability 

 

Proof of Education 
If using education to qualify or when requested by the recruiter, upload a copy of any license(s), official/unofficial transcript(s), degrees, and/or related employment documents to your NeoGov account at the time of application and before the closing date. Official or unofficial transcripts will be accepted.

If your education was completed outside of the United States, you will need to provide a copy of your Foreign Education Equivalency evaluation from a member of the National Association of Credential Evaluation Services (NACES) or Association of International Credential Evaluators, Inc. (AICE).

 

Work Authorization Requirement
Applicants must be legally authorized to work in the United States at the time of application. The County of Riverside does not participate in visa sponsorship programs, including H1-B visas, and will not provide sponsorship for any employment-based visas.

 

Equal Opportunity Employer
The County of Riverside is an Equal Opportunity Employer. It is the policy of the County of Riverside to provide equal employment opportunities for all qualified persons. All applicants will be considered without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity, gender expression, marital status, ancestry, medical condition (cancer and genetic characteristics), genetic information, or denial of medical and family care leave, or any other non-job-related factors.

 

Pre-Employment
All employment offers are contingent upon successful completion of pre-employment requirements including a criminal background investigation, which involves fingerprinting. (A felony or misdemeanor conviction may disqualify the applicant from County employment).  A pre-employment physical examination and background check may be required.

 

Probationary Period
As an Approved Local Merit System, all County of Riverside employees, except those serving "At Will," are subject to the probationary period provisions as specified in the applicable Memorandum of Understanding, County Resolution, or Salary Ordinance. Temporary and Per Diem employees serve at the pleasure of the agency/department head.

 

General Information
Current County of Riverside and/or current employees of the hiring department may receive priority consideration. Qualified candidates may be considered for future County vacancies. 

 

Job postings may close without notice based on application volume. Submit your complete application by the recruitment close date; no late applications are accepted. Ensure all relevant experience/education is reflected on your application/resume, as a failure to demonstrate position requirements may disqualify applicants. A description of job duties directly copied from the job classification or job posting will not be considered.

 

Please read and follow any special application instructions on this posting. Click the 'Apply' link located on this page to submit your application. For additional instructions on the application process, examinations, Veteran's preference, pre-employment accommodation or other employment questions, please refer to our web site, www.rc-hr.com. 

 

If you are experiencing technical problems, you may contact the governmentjobs.com applicant support desk Monday through Friday, 6 am to 5 pm Pacific Time at support@governmentjobs.com or toll-free 1-855-524-5627.

 MEDICAL/DENTAL INSURANCE: A Flexible Benefit Credit is provided on a monthly basis as governed by the Management Resolution or applicable bargaining unit. Vision coverage is provided through Vision Service Plan (VSP) at no cost to employee or eligible dependents.Note: Employees on assignment through the Temporary Assignment Program (TAP) receive different benefits. See the list here.MISCELLANEOUS RETIREMENT:  County of Riverside has three retirement Tiers through the California Public Employees' Retirement System (CalPERS).	Tier I (Classic Member – Formula 3% @ 60): Applicable to current and former County of Riverside local miscellaneous employees hired prior to 08/24/2012 and did not withdraw CalPERS contributions. The employee contribution is eight (8%) percent.	Tier II (Classic Member – Formula 2% @ 60): Applicable to local miscellaneous employees 1) hired after 08/23/2012 through 12/31/2012; 2) Previously employed with another CalPERS contracting public agency or a reciprocal retirement system, with a break in service of less than six months between the separation date with the previous employer and the appointment date with the County of Riverside. The employee contribution is seven (7%) percent.	Tier III (PEPRA New Member - Formula 2% @ 62): Applicable to CalPERS local miscellaneous new members hired on or after the implementation of the Public Employees' Pension Reform Act of 2013 (PEPRA) which took effect January 1, 2013. Effective July 1, 2023, the employee contributions are 7.25% and will increase to 7.75% effective July 1, 2024.A new member is defined as any of the following:	A new hire who enters CalPERS membership for the first time on or after January 1, 2013, and who has no prior membership in any California Public Retirement System.	A new hire who enters CalPERS membership for the first time on or after January 1, 2013, and who was a member with another California Public Retirement System prior to that date, but who is not subject to reciprocity upon joining CalPERS.	A member who first established CalPERS membership prior to January 1, 2013, and who is rehired by a different CalPERS agency after a break in service of greater than six (6) months.CalPERS refers to all members that do not fit within the definition of a new member as "classic members".Contribution rates are subject to change based on the County of Riverside annual actuarial valuation.Note:This summary is for general information purposes only. Additional questions regarding retirement formulas can be sent to retirement@rivco.org or by calling the Benefits Information Line at (951) 955-4981,Option 2.If you have prior service credit with another CalPERS agency or within agencies, please contact CalPERS at (888) 225-7377 to determine which retirement tier would be applicable to you. CalPERS is governed by the Public Employees' Retirement Law.  The Retirement Law is complex and subject to change.  If there's any conflict between this summary and the law, the law will prevail over this summary.DEFERRED COMPENSATION: Voluntary employee contribution with a choice between two 457 deferred compensation plan options.401(a) MONEY PURCHASE PLAN: County contribution of $50 per pay period towards choice between two 401(a) plan providers.ANNUAL LEAVE (Bi-Weekly Accrual):0 < 36 months = 8.92 Hours36 to <108 months = 10.46 Hours108 or more months = 12.00 HoursMaximum Annual Leave accumulation is 1,800 hours. Employee may receive pay in lieu of up to 80 hours per calendar year. Agency/Department Head may approve an additional 80 hours.-Annual Leave for Unrepresented Management Attorneys:Maximum Annual Leave accumulation is 2,000 hours. Refer to Article 22 of the Management Resolution for a list of job classifications included.HOLIDAYS: Normally 12 paid holidays per year.BEREAVEMENT LEAVE: 5 days (3 days are County paid; 2 days can be taken through use of accrued leave balances).BASIC LIFE INSURANCE: $50,000 of term life coverage. Premiums are paid by the County. Additional Supplemental Life plan is available for employee purchase.LONG-TERM DISABILITY (LTD): Benefit pays 66.67% of earnings to a maximum of $10,000 per month; 30-day waiting period; pays to age 65. Benefit can be coordinated with other available leave balances to provide up to 100% of pay.POST RETIREMENT MEDICAL CONTRIBUTION: A monthly contribution is made by the County towards retiree health insurance offered through the County as governed by the Management Resolution or applicable bargaining unit.OTHER: There may be other benefit provisions as specified in the applicable Memorandum of Understanding, Management Resolution, or Salary Ordinance. Please contact the recruiter listed on the job posting directly for more information..