=== JOB DETAILS ===

Salary: Depends on Qualifications
Location: Houston, TX
Job Type: Regular Full-time
Job Number: 0005-D
Opening Date: 08/21/2020
Closing Date: 11/9/2020 9:47 AM Central

BENEFITS:
  • Medical
  • Dental
  • Vision
  • Wellness
  • Life Insurance
  • Long-term disability
  • Employee Assistance Program
  • 10 days of vacation each year for the first five (5) years of service. Accrual rates increase based on years of service.
  • 10 county holidays plus one (1) floating holiday
  • Professional development opportunities
  • Dependent Care Reimbursement Plan
  • Healthcare Reimbursement Account
  • 457 Deferred Compensation Plan

The following benefits are also available to regular (full-time) employment and may be available to part-time employees:
Retirement pension (TCDRS)			 Flexible schedules (varies by department)					Transportation Assistance (Metro RideSponsor Program)
In accordance with the Harris County Personnel Regulations, Group Health and related benefits are subject to amendment or discontinuance at any time. Commissioners Court reserves the right to make benefit modifications on the County's behalf as needed.
For plan details, visit the Harris County benefits website:
https://hrrm.harriscountytx.gov/Pages/Medical.aspx

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Harris County seeks an Elections Administrator to plan, coordinate, lead, and manage the newly established Office of the Elections Administrator under Chapter 31 of the Texas Election Code. The Elections Administrator will act as the county voter registrar, administer all local, state, and federal elections in Harris County, and oversee Harris County’s elections operations, including voter registration, public education and outreach, and recruitment and supervision of election judges and poll workers. The Elections Administrator will also work to modernize Harris County elections, expand access to registration and voting, and ensure voting is fair, easy, efficient, secure, and accessible for all eligible Harris County voters consistent with the Texas Election Code and Federal regulations.

OVERVIEW OF HARRIS COUNTY
 
Harris County is the third-largest county in the country. Its population of more than 4.5 million rivals that of the entire state of Colorado. Harris County is governed by Harris County Commissioners Court. The Court is composed of a County Judge and four Commissioners. Commissioners Court conducts the general business of the County and oversees financial matters. The Harris County Judge and Commissioners oversee a $4.3 billion budget that helps fund key county services and institutions. As the main governing body of Harris County, Commissioners Court plays a critical role that is part administrative, part legislative, and part judicial. Its many responsibilities include adopting a budget; setting tax rates; calling for bond elections; building and maintaining county infrastructure such as roads and bridges; and overseeing county courthouses, jails, libraries, parks, and the Harris County Flood Control District. Harris County currently has more than 75 departments with over 15,000 employees. The Harris County Election Commission appoints and oversees the Elections Administrator. 


ESSENTIAL DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
 
Oversees and coordinates Harris County's election and voter registration activities and operations, including by conducting ongoing registration of Harris County voters.
Monitors and ensures compliance with state and federal laws and regulations governing elections and voters' rights, including the Voting Rights Act of 1965 and the American Disabilities Act.
Conducts and expands public education and outreach on voter registration and election participation.
Develops and implements protections and initiatives to modernize Harris County elections, expand access to registration and voting in Harris County, and otherwise ensure registration and voting processes are fair, easy, convenient, and accessible for all eligible Harris County citizens.
Coordinates with elections judges and workers, as well as local organizations and citizens, to enable all eligible citizens to be properly registered and informed on voting processes and procedures.
Works with political parties in Harris County to coordinate primary elections
Reviews voter registration records and monitor voter registration activities in compliance with state and federal laws.
Assembles, trains, and supervises teams of election judges and workers in performing all elections for which Harris County is responsible.
Gathers and provides information to the Harris County Election Commission, Harris County Commissioners Court, election judges, election workers, and the general public regarding the state and federal laws and procedures for registering voters and conducting elections.
Identifies and designates all facilities/locations for each election event and ensure an equitable distribution of voting locations across county precincts.
Provides to each voting location the required equipment, forms, records, maps, and other materials needed to conduct the election and report election results.
Prepares and administers the annual budget for approval by Commissioners Court and monitor expenditures for the Office of the Elections Administrator.
Audits and submits all authorizations for payments for election workers, services, and equipment according to Harris County purchasing requirements.
Compiles election results for reporting to the Commissioners Court, the Secretary of State, or any jurisdictional authority with which Harris County contracts to provide election services.
Maintains records of election results and make them available as a public record as required by law.
Meets regularly with the Election Administration Community Advisory Board, and regularly engage with community stakeholders regarding the elections process.
Develops and implements a robust community engagement plan to ensure public participation throughout the election administration process.
Develops and implements an election administration plan by using data and metrics, and in collaboration with community members and stakeholders.
Oversees general management and human resources responsibilities for the Office of the Election Administrator.
 
Harris County is an Equal Opportunity Employer
https://hrrm.harriscountytx.gov/Pages/EqualEmploymentOpportunityPlan.aspx
If you need special services or accommodations, please call (713) 274-5445 or email ADACoordinator@bmd.hctx.net

Minimum 4 years of experience in relevant positions with increasing levels of responsibility.
Excellent oral and written communications skills, management, supervisory, and organizational skills.
Per the Texas Election Code, may not be a candidate for a public office or an office of a political party, hold public office, or hold an office of or a position in a political party.
Ability to work with Party Chairs in recruiting, training and supervising election workers.
Must be able to exercise tact and courtesy in frequent contact with various county personnel, public officials and the general public.
Proven ability to meet multiple deadlines and balance numerous projects in a fast-paced environment.
Ability to develop and drive new initiatives, work cross-departmentally, work within multidisciplinary teams, oversee projects to completion, and measure results.
Deep commitment to expanding voting rights, voting integrity, and voter accessibility


STATE REQUIREMENTS

Per Chapter 31 of the Texas Election Code:
Sec. 31.034: To be eligible for appointment as county elections administrator, a person must be a qualified voter of the state.
Sec. 31.035.
(a) A county elections administrator may not be a candidate for a public office or an office of a political party, hold a public office, or hold an office of or position in a political party.  At the time an administrator becomes a candidate or accepts an office or position in violation of this subsection, the administrator vacates the position of administrator.
(b) A county elections administrator commits an offense if the administrator makes a political contribution or political expenditure, as defined by the law regulating political funds and campaigns, or publicly supports or opposes a candidate for public office or a measure to be voted on at an election.  An offense under this subsection is a Class A misdemeanor.  On a final conviction, the administrator's employment is terminated, and the person convicted is ineligible for future appointment as county elections administrator.
(c) In this section, "candidate" means a person who has taken affirmative action, as described by the law regulating political funds and campaigns, for the purpose of gaining nomination or election.
Sec. 31.036. The county election commission is the proper authority to receive and act on a resignation from the position of county elections administrator.
Sec. 31.037. The employment of the county elections administrator may be suspended, with or without pay, or terminated at any time for good and sufficient cause on the four-fifths vote of the county election commission and approval of that action by a majority vote of the commissioners court.
Sec. 31.038.
(a) A vacancy in the position of county elections administrator is filled by appointment of the county election commission.
(b) An appointment to fill an anticipated vacancy arising from a resignation to take effect at a future date may be made at any time after the resignation is accepted.
Sec. 31.039. 
(a) The commissioners court shall set the number of deputies and other persons that the county elections administrator may employ.
(b) Repealed by Acts 2005, 79th Leg., Ch. 1272, Sec. 1, eff. June 18, 2005.
(c) The commissioners court may allow the automobile expense that it considers necessary to the administrator and to any of the administrator's employees in the performance of their official duties.
(d) The commissioners court shall provide the administrator with suitable office space and with the equipment and operating expenses needed for the proper conduct of the office.
(e) The amount initially appropriated by the commissioners court for the operating expenses of the administrator's office may not be less than the total amount last appropriated to the county clerk and the county tax assessor-collector for the functions assigned to the administrator.
(f) Except as provided by Subsection (g), a person employed on a full-time basis by the administrator's office is subject to Section 31.035 in the same manner as the administrator.
(g)  Section 31.035(b) does not apply to a person employed on a full-time basis by the administrator's office in a county with a population of one million or less that has an election administrator.

Additional relevant experience over 8 years.
Having worked on jurisdiction of comparable size
Bachelor’s degree or above in a relevant field
Prior experience related to or knowledge of elections and voter registration laws, procedures, practices, documentation, and equipment.
Knowledge of regulations, principles, and practices governing elections administration and voter registration.
Familiarity with specialized elections equipment and database programming principles.

WORKING CONDITIONS
This position will require extended work during elections and meetings across Harris County outside normal business hours. During election cycles, extended and irregular hours during the workweek and weekend may be required.

SALARY
Commensurate with experience.

TO APPLY
Please send a cover letter and resume to hcrecruit@bmd.hctx.net 
 

Due to a high volume of applications positions may close prior to the advertised closing date.