=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Communications Specialist III
Salary: $85,890.06 - $108,870.53 YEAR
Location: WA 98057-2906, WA, WA, 98104
Employer: King County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2023-06-07
Job Type: Career Service, Full Time, 40 hrs/week
Job Number: 2023RL19190
Department: KCE - King County Elections
Division: Administration
Opening Date: 06/07/2023
Closing Date: 6/21/2023 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Exempt
Bargaining Unit: F3A : L117-P&T

BENEFITS:
  • Excellent medical, dental, and vision coverage options: King County provides eligible employees with options, so they can decide what’s best for themselves and their eligible dependents
  • Life and disability insurance: employees are provided basic coverage and given the opportunity to purchase additional insurance for both the employee and eligible dependents
  • Retirement: eligible King County employees may participate in a pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems and a 457(b) deferred-compensation plan
  • Transportation program and ORCA transit pass
  • 12 paid holidays each year plus two personal holidays
  • Generous vacation and paid sick leave
  • Paid parental, family and medical, and volunteer leaves
  • Flexible Spending Account
  • Wellness programs
  • Onsite activity centers
  • Employee Giving Program
  • Employee assistance programs
  • Flexible schedules and telecommuting options, depending on position
  • Training and career development programs

For additional information about employee benefits, visit our
Benefits, Payroll, and Retirement Page
.
This is a general description of the benefits offered to eligible King County employees, and every effort has been made to ensure its accuracy.  If any information on this document conflicts with the provisions of a collective bargaining agreement (CBA), the CBA prevails.
NOTE:
Benefits for Term Limited Temporary (TLT) or Short Term Temporary (STT) positions, including leave eligibility and/or participation in the pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems, will vary based upon the terms and details of the position. Short Term Temporary positions are not eligible for an ORCA transit pass.
For inquiries about the specifics of this position, please contact the recruiter identified on this job posting.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

This is an amazing opportunity to be engaged in the election process!
 
The Department of Elections is searching for an energetic and resourceful professional who likes to “get stuff done”. The Communications Specialist III position in the Elections Department combines an exciting environment with the opportunity to cultivate talents and apply a variety of skills on the growing Elections Communications team. The ideal candidate will thrive in an innovative, fast-paced environment and will not hesitate to roll up their sleeves, work hard, have fun, and get the job done.
 
This position reports to the Communications Manager for the Department of Elections. The person who fills this role will play an integral role in providing accurate and reliable information to King County voters through a variety of mediums. As misinformation surrounding elections has grown, it has become more important than ever for Elections to communicate proactively, regularly, and reliably with our voters.
 
This position will work with a team of highly qualified election professionals and will often be tasked with translating complex technical processes into information that can be delivered on a variety of platforms and easily understood by a variety of audiences. This position will work closely with the Language Services and Community Engagement team to ensure materials and information are delivered in Chinese, Korean, Russian, Somali, Spanish, and Vietnamese.
 
King County Elections (KCE) manages voter registrations and elections for more than 1.4 million voters in King County, one of the largest vote-by-mail counties in the United States. KCE's mission is to conduct accessible, secure, and accurate elections.  As a leader in providing inclusive elections, KCE is focused on core values of accuracy, equity, integrity, service, teamwork, and transparency. The team at KCE is committed to ensuring all King County voters can get registered, cast their ballot, and make their voices heard. Learn more at www.kingcounty.gov/elections.aspx  
 
Who May Apply:  This position is open to the general public and all King County employees.
 
Materials Required to Apply: Applicants must submit a (1) King County Application, (2) resume, (3) letter of interest, and (4) a recent, relevant writing sample (excerpts from longer documents are acceptable), up to 6 pages total. The letter of interest should describe how your skills and experience meet the qualifications and have prepared you to perform the essential functions of the job. Applications without the required materials may not be considered for this position.
  
Work Location:  The work site for this position is the Elections Building located at 919 SW Grady Way in Renton. The work associated with this position will be performed through a combination of teleworking complemented with onsite work and meetings as needed.

Work Schedule:  The standard workweek for this position is Monday through Friday, 40 hours per week.  We require the flexibility to work additional hours during peak periods of the Election cycle.  This position is exempt from the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act and is therefore not eligible for overtime.

In this role you will have the opportunity to:
 


Manage and curate the department's various social media feeds including Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and LinkedIn. 
Interact with voters online and in-person to build trust and provide information on voting. 
Produce a variety of written materials such as press releases, media advisories, customer service talking points, and voter education materials.
Update and manage KCE's website, blog, and SharePoint sites. 
Draft copy and content for advertisements, internal communications, brochures and/or reports. 
Support the elected Director of Elections by drafting internal communications, preparing presentations for a variety of external audiences, providing media support, and developing talking points. 
Work regularly with the media to respond to inquiries and serve as a spokesperson for the department as needed. 
Engage employees across the department to identify communication needs and issues.
Support on-site activities such as tours, media visits, and other communication-related events as needed.
Identify and propose emerging tools and trends in communications to improve the process or product, or both. 

Exceptional written and verbal communication skills, with a high attention to detail when proofreading. 
Ability to work in a fast-paced environment with little supervision. 
Ability to be a team-player who is creative, organized, and can work across functional teams. 
Professional experience curating a variety of social media platforms, including Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and LinkedIn.
Demonstrated ability to identify the communication needs of diverse audiences and determine the best communications methods, messages, and tools to reach them. 
Experience working in and with diverse communities and delivering messages in a culturally appropriate way. 
Skilled in managing projects, as well incorporating and balancing feedback from a variety of stakeholders. 

Desired qualifications:          
 

Experience with design and video platforms such as Adobe In-Design, Illustrator, and Premiere Rush. 
Experience working with GovDelivery digital messaging system. 
Recent professional experience developing communications materials in a government environment.

Travel to work locations throughout King County with limited or no public transportation services is required. A valid Washington State Driver's License is required to operate King County vehicles.
 
Union Membership: This position is represented by Teamsters, Local 117 Professional and Technical.
 
Hybrid Work Environment  
The work associated with this position will be performed through a combination of teleworking complemented with onsite work and meetings as needed.  Employees must reside in Washington state and within a reasonable distance to their King County worksite to respond to workplace reporting requirements.
 
Employees will be provided with a County issued laptop and must maintain a workspace with an internet connection (access may be supplemented in some situations) where they can reliably perform work and remain available and responsive during scheduled work hours. Please note that when an employee conducts work that is likely to bring them in contact with another individual, safety precautions are required, including the wearing of masks in some situations. King County is doing its part to reduce the spread of COVID-19 and remains committed to reducing our carbon footprint.
   
King County has a robust collection of tools and resources to support working remotely. The individual selected for this opportunity will be joining an innovative and progressive team that is redefining how we work as we transition to the department's hybrid environment.  
   
Forbes recently named King County as one of Washington State's best employers.
            
Together, with leadership and our employees, we're changing the way government delivers service and winning national recognition as a model of excellence. Are you ready to make a difference? Come join the team dedicated to serving one of the nation's best places to live, work and play.
   
Guided by our "True North", we are making King County a welcoming community where every person can thrive. We value diversity, inclusion and belonging in our workplace and workforce. To reach this goal we are committed to workforce equity. Equitable recruiting, support, and retention is how we will obtain the highest quality workforce in our region; a workforce that shares and will help advance our guiding principles--we are one team; we solve problems; we focus on the customer; we drive for results; we are racially just; we respect all people; we lead the way; and we are responsible stewards. We encourage people of all backgrounds and identities to apply, including Native American and people of color, immigrants, refugees, women, LGBTQ+, people living with disabilities, and veterans.

King County is an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Employer
No person is unlawfully excluded from employment opportunities based on race, color, religion, national origin, sex (including gender identity, sexual orientation and pregnancy), age, genetic information, disability, veteran status, or other protected class. Our EEO policy applies to all employment actions, including but not limited to recruitment, hiring, selection for training, promotion, transfer, demotion, layoff, termination, rates of pay or other forms of compensation.
 
To Apply 
If you are interested in pursuing this position, please follow the application instructions carefully. If you need this announcement in an alternate language or format, would like to request accommodation or assistance in the application or assessment process or if you have questions please contact your recruiter listed on this job announcement.
 
 For more information regarding this recruitment, please contact: 
  Reeshema Lewis
  Sr. HR Business Partner
  Email:  Reeshema.Lewis@kingcounty.gov 