=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Departmental Analyst 9-P11 - Disclosure, Filings and Compliance Division
Salary: $21.66 - $33.95 HOUR
Location: Lansing, MI, MI, 48909
Employer: State of Michigan
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2021-08-17
Job Type: Permanent Full Time
Job Number: 2301-21-EL332
Department: Department of State
Opening Date: 08/18/2021
Closing Date: 9/1/2021 11:59 PM Eastern
Bargaining Unit: N/A

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===




POSITION DUTIES - This position serves as the Disclosure and Filings Analyst within the Disclosure, Filings and Compliance Division within the Bureau of Elections, Michigan Department of State. The Division is responsible for administering the Michigan Campaign Finance Act, Lobbyist Registration Act, Casino Registration Act and Michigan Election Law. The Analyst will support the Division’s functions through research and analysis of disclosure reports, campaign statements and ballot-access filings,
with emphasis on working cooperatively to address deficiencies and correct noncompliant filings; developing and updating training materials and user manuals; and providing training to the regulated community.

Position Description - Departmental Analyst 9-P11 (Download PDF reader)
 
APPOINTMENT TYPE/BENEFITS - This position is Full Time. Therefore, you would be eligible to participate in the benefits offered by the state.


MDOSJOBS

Education
Possession of a bachelor's degree in any major.
 

Experience

Departmental Analyst 9
No specific type or amount is required.

Departmental Analyst 10
One year of professional experience.

Departmental Analyst P11
Two years of professional experience, including one year of experience equivalent to the intermediate (10) level in state service.

You must apply for this vacancy through the NEOGOV system; click on "Apply" in the job posting for instructions in submitting your electronic application. Your application for any position does not guarantee that you will be contacted by the Department for further consideration. Only those applicants interviewed will be notified of the results.

Civil Service Commission Rule 2-7 requires that all newly hired state employees submit to and pass a pre-employment drug test prior to their actual appointment.  Due to the nature of work of the Department of State, criminal and driving records will be checked.  Any position offer will be conditional until results of the criminal background record checks indicate eligibility for employment.

View the entire job specification at: https://www.michigan.gov/documents/DepartmentalAnalyst_12505_7.pdf (Download PDF reader)

 
 

Accommodations
If you require a reasonable accommodation to participate in the application or selection processes, please contact the ADA coordinator (Download PDF reader) for the agency that posted this position vacancy.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Do you possess one of the following?

A bachelor's degree or higher in any major. If so, please attach a copy of your official college transcripts.

OR 

At least one year of professional experience in the state classified service.
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Please list all previous names, to include name at birth, and any alias name(s) used. If you do not have any previous/alias names to list, please enter "none".
        
        
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Are you related to anyone working at the Department of State (Secretary of State)?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        If you answered "yes" to question #3, please list the name of each relative. If you answered "no" to question #6, please enter "none"
        
        
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Do you have experience working in a regulatory agency or regulated industry?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Please describe your experience working in a regulatory agency or regulated industry. If you do not possess this experience, please type "none".
        
        
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Do you have experience ensuring compliance with laws, regulations, contracts or program requirements?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Please describe your experience ensuring compliance with laws, regulations, contracts or program requirements. If you do not possess this experience, please type "none".
        
        
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        Do you have experience working with government officials or legislative staff, the general public or election officials?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        Please describe your experience working with government officials or legislative staff, the general public or election officials.  If you do not possess this experience, please type "none".
        
        
        
    


    
        

11

    

    
        Please describe a time at work when you identified a need and initiated action to address it on your own. If you do not possess this experience, please enter "none."
        
        
        
    


    
        

12

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have with the Michigan Campaign Finance Act, Lobby Registration Act, and Michigan Election Law?
        
        
                None
                Less than 1 year
                1 year - 3 years
                3 years - 5 years
                More than 5 years
        
    


    
        

13

    

    
        Please describe your experience with the Michigan Campaign Finance Act, Lobby Registration Act and Michigan Election Law. If you do not possess this experience, please enter "none".
        
        
        
    


    
        

14

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have working in a regulatory program where required to review reports or documents for potential issues.
        
        
                None
                Less than 1 year
                1 year - 3 years
                3 years - 5 years
                More than 5 years
        
    


    
        

15

    

    
        Please describe your experience working in a regulatory program where there was a requirement to review reports or documents for potential issues. If you do not possess this experience, please enter "none".
        
        
        
    


    
        

16

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have researching, writing and editing procedures, manuals and correspondence?
        
        
                None
                Less than 1 year
                1 year - 3 years
                3 years - 5 years
                More than 5 years
        
    


    
        

17

    

    
        Please describe your experience researching, writing and editing procedures, manuals and correspondence. If you do not possess this experience, please enter "none".
        
        
        
    


    
        

18

    

    
        If you qualify for this position by possessing a bachelor's degree, did you remember to upload your official college transcripts to your application?  
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        