=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: General Registrar
Location: Manassas, VA, VA, 22192
Employer: Prince William County Government
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2021-04-14
Salary: Depends on Qualifications
Job Type: Full-Time (PF)
Job Number: 201206348
Department: ELECTIONS
Division: ELECTIONS
Opening Date: 04/15/2021
GRADE: N/A

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

The Prince William County Electoral Board is seeking a General Registrar to provide leadership and management in the Office of Elections in Prince William County, Virginia.  We are one of Virginia’s fastest-growing counties with a diverse population of 470,000 citizens and over 300,000 registered voters.  

ABOUT THIS ROLE
The General Registrar is an appointed state employee and sworn official with overall responsibility for administering the provisions of Virginia election laws under guidelines established by the State Board of Elections and the Prince William County Electoral Board, including the duties and powers of the General Registrar as stated in Title 24.2 of the Code of Virginia and in compliance with other federal, state and local laws and policies.  With yearly and frequent elections, the General Registrar is responsible for the oversight of a large and complex voter registration and election administration agency with approximately 20 full-time employees and more than 1,000 election officers.  The General Registrar consults with, advises and reports to the Prince William County Electoral Board on all issues relative to election administration and voter registration.

The General Registrar, working with the Electoral Board identifies suitable polling places, acquires and test voting and other equipment, recruits and trains Officers of Election, and obtains technical support and financial resources. Learn more about us on a virtual tour by clicking here.

PREFERENCES
The Board is seeking an innovative leader with demonstrated management experience and political acumen.   It is critical that the General Registrar have excellent interpersonal skills and a high level of multi-cultural sensitivity to work effectively with a diverse community and employee population and a complex hierarchy.  This is an executive management position that reports to the three-person County Electoral Board.  The General Registrar must effectively manage the Office of Elections budget of approximately $3 million. Experience with election law in the Commonwealth of Virginia, preferred.

SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS
Successful candidate must be (or must become within 30 days of appointment) a registered voter in Prince William County, Virginia.

SCHEDULE REQUIREMENTS
Monday - Friday with flexibility to work evenings and weekends as needed.

STARTING SALARY RANGE: $100,000 - $130,000/YR. Commensurate with experience.

LIVE HERE.... WORK HERE.....Prince William County (PWC) is a beautiful historic community located about 30 miles from our nations Capital. We have excellent schools, beautiful parks  and cultural opportunities for the entire family. PWC Government offers excellent pay, a comprehensive benefits package, generous leave accrual and access to training and career development opportunities.

This position will excite individuals ready to accept the challenge to run secure elections in the 21st century... If this describes you, APPLY TODAY!    

DEADLINE: Open until filled with ongoing application review.

Prince William County Government offers medical plans with corresponding pharmacy and basic vision coverage, as well as dental plans and a separate vision plan.Full-time and part-time Prince William County Government employees are eligible to participate in our plans; however, the level and cost of benefits depends on the classification of the position. The following positions do not accrue leave and are not eligible for holidays or other fringe benefits:	Temporary	Provisional	Seasonal employeesClick on the link below to explore our plans and rates.Prince William County Benefit Programs


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        I understand that information provided on my application is used to determine my qualifications. Information on my resume will not substitute for the education, work experience and required fields on the County application. Only information provided at the time of the application submission will be considered when determining my qualifications. Only responses to Supplemental Questions that can be verified in my submitted education and work experience will be credited.
        
        
                I have read, understand, and acknowledge the above statement
                I decline to proceed any further in this process.
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Please select the option that reflects your highest level of completed education.
        
        
                Master's degree or higher in Public/Business Administration or a related field
                Bachelor's degree in Public/Business Administration or a related field
                Associate's degree in Public/Business Administration or a related field
                Associate's degree or higher unrelated
                None of the above
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Please quantify your experience working with elected officials and state agencies.
        
        
                4 or more years of experience
                3 years of experience
                2 years of experience
                1 year or less experience
                No experience
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Please quantify your budget management experience?
        
        
                Over $3 million
                $1 million - $3 million
                Less than $1 million
                No experience managing budgets
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        What is the largest number of full-time equivalent (FTE) employees that you have supervised for at least a 12 months?
        
        
                21 or more employees
                11 - 20 employees
                1 - 10 employees
                No supervisory experience
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Have you ever received any form of payment (salary or fees) from a political party or committee?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Have you ever run for political office?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        