=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Director of Elections    POS#103000001
Salary: $78,784.40 - $132,425.23 YEAR
Location: 227 Fountainhead Lane, NC, NC, 28301
Employer: Cumberland County
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2021-12-13
Job Type: Full-Time
Job Number: 202101201
Department: Board of Elections
Opening Date: 12/14/2021
Closing Date: Continuous
Salary Grade: 82

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

*This position is open until filled*
** Salary will be determined by applicants qualifying education and experience** 


The Elections Director works under the administrative direction of the County Board of Elections and Executive Director of the State Board of Election. The Elections Director performs professional, managerial, and administrative work for the Board of Elections and carries out all duties or responsibilities as assigned by Chapter 163 of the General Statutes of the State of North Carolina and as delegated by members of the County Board in accordance with the laws of the State of North Carolina, GS 163-35 (d) and 163-33.  Reports to the Chairman of the Cumberland County Board of Elections.  

Administers all functions of the office of the Board of Elections to comply with General Statutes, mandates and directives by the Executive Director of the North Carolina State Board of Elections and provides information and guidance to members of the Cumberland County Board of Elections in order to effectively comply with North Carolina election laws. Ensures compliance with all State and County issued cyber security directives and implements practices to guard against security attacks, including cyber security and physical security. Responds to state and federal law changes, implements changes to ensure county compliant with new laws, and educates the public about the impact of legislative changes and adhering to those duties delegated to the county boards of elections in NCGS 163-33
Organizes and prepares for all elections and recounts, including preparing ballots, programming, and testing of voting machines; coordinating delivery of voting equipment, signs, and supplies to voting places; and arranging return of these items Ensures testing of voting equipment for accuracy of tabulation and function prior to elections and conducts post-election certification processes. Manages contracts for the voting systems and supplies, including printing of ballots.  Recruits, manages, and trains staff and temporary employees, including employees for one-stop voting sites and election day precinct officials administers absentee voting, maintains precinct and district lines for Geocoding
Prepares and provides required and requested reports to the State Board of Elections and the Board regarding election activities, and to county administration staff regarding personnel, payroll, and finance
Projects and recommends annual budget and budget amendments to the Board, supervising revenues and expenses of annual budget as appropriated by the county board of commissioners. Projects and plans for capital expenses, including office and voting equipment, recommending selection based upon requirements of state and federal election laws, and negotiating with vendors
Organizes and supervises procedures and methods of receiving and processing applications for voter registration, including ascertaining that applicants are eligible to register in the county; ensures that voter registration records are updated to reflect changes of address, name changes and changes of party affiliation, including mailing out required notices for new registrations and changes to registration records. Supervises the removal of ineligible voters. Provides lists of voters requested by political parties, candidates, the general public and others. Maintains custody of voter registration and other records in a safe and secure manner and location
Identifies number of voting places required and recommends locations; negotiates usage as needed. Prepares maps of precincts and submits to State Board of Elections, North Carolina General Assembly, and other governmental agencies upon request or as required
Coordinates Board meetings; prepares agenda and minutes of meetings; correspondence, resolutions, and reports for the Board; informs Board members of changes in election laws and/or procedural changes of implementation

Work experience in North Carolina elections at the County staff level. Graduation from a four-year college or university and three (3) years of experience in the planning and management of a business or governmental program or an equivalent combination of education and experience.  
 
Management Preference: Five (5) years of experience in planning and conducting elections.



Applicant must not have in the past 48 months: (1) Held any office in a political party or organization; (2) Served as a campaign manager or treasurer of any candidate in a primary or election; (3) Held a position with an organization that engages in electioneering; or (4) Held a position as a lobbyist.


Must be certified or obtain certification as a North Carolina Elections Administrator from the State Board of Elections within three years of appointment.  


A formal transcript will be required. College transcripts may be submitted on-line via the attachment feature or mailed to Cumberland County Human Resources, 117 Dick St. Fayetteville, NC 28301.


Driving is an essential function of this position. To be considered, you must have a valid driver's license with an acceptable driving record.  If your driver’s license is from another state, you will be required to obtain and show proof of a valid NC driver’s license within 60 days of hire.


Negative drug screen and background check are required.




Thorough knowledge of North Carolina General Statutes and Board of Election guidelines governing elections
Thorough knowledge of principles and practices of  election programs and related laws, ordinances, standards, and regulations
Considerable knowledge of the State Election Information Management system software
Considerable knowledge of the State Election Information Management System software
Ability to direct staff, plan for and allocate resources, interpret policies and regulations
Ability to  direct voter registration,  election voting procedures, record keeping and reporting of programs and services 
Ability to develop and maintain cooperative internal and external Departmental relationships
Ability to represent program in written form and effectively communicate with others

Cumberland County offers a generous benefit plan including a Government Retirement Plan, 12 paid holidays per year and an Employee Wellness Center Clinic.To see more information about the benefits offered to employees Click here


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Have you in the past 4 years held any office in a political party or organization?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        Have you in the past 4 years served as a campaign manager or treasurer of any candidate in a primary or election?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Have you in the past 4 years held a position with any organization that engages in electioneering?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Have you in the past 4 years held a position as a lobbyist?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Are you certified as a North Carolina Elections Administrator from the State Board of Elections?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        If you answered no to the previous question, would you be able to obtain a certification as a North Carolina Administrator from the State Board of Elections within 3 years?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Please verify that your application includes the following information:
* Employment history including salary, employer address and phone number, supervisor's name, and reason for leaving each employer.

Applications without the above information will be considered incomplete and not be processed.

Please take a moment to review your application before submission to ensure all categories are completed and accurate.
        
        
                I have read and understand the above statement
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        