The City of Vernon is a full-service city of 5.2 square miles located about five miles to the southeast of downtown Los Angeles. Founded in 1905 as the first exclusively industrial city in the Southwestern United States, Vernon is home to 250 residents and has embarked on ambitious plans to increase its residential population and establish itself as an ideal place to live and work. The City currently houses more than 1,800 businesses that employ approximately 50,000 people, serving as a vital economic engine for the Southern California region. Vernon offers an environment uniquely friendly to business and has a diverse industry makeup comprising many Fortune 500 companies in industries that include food and agriculture, apparel, steel, plastics, logistics and home furnishings.
The City Clerk position plans, directs, supervises, and coordinates all activities of the City Clerk’s Office related to Council meetings, City elections, and public records in accordance with applicable laws, codes, policies, and procedures. The City Clerk oversees two full-time staff members: the Deputy City Clerk and Clerk Specialist. This position maintains the City Municipal Code, certifies City documents, and attests to proper execution of all public documents. The City is seeking a detail oriented, thorough, and responsive candidate to serve as the next City Clerk. The ideal candidate is politically astute with excellent customer service. A team player who is approachable and engaged will do well in this role. The next City Clerk must have the ability to research, review, correct, and maintain complex and extensive public records; monitor the City’s compliance with all laws, regulations, and rules; encourage civic engagement; and assess and prioritize multiple tasks, projects, and demands.
The annual salary range for the City Clerk position is $189,584 - $230,441. Placement within this range depends upon qualifications and experience. The City also offers an excellent benefits package.
The City has a 4/10 work schedule and there is an option for participation in a Hybrid Work Program that provides both onsite and remote work opportunities. The City also has morning City Council and Commission meetings.