=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Director of Elections/General Registrar
Salary: $131,504.00 - $219,600.00 YEAR
Location: Richmond, VA, VA, 23219
Employer: City of Richmond
Employment Type: FULL_TIME
Date Posted: 2024-12-17
Job Type: Full-Time
Job Number: 17M000000013
Department: Office of Elections
Opening Date: 12/18/2024
Closing Date: 1/21/2025 3:00 PM Eastern

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Are you Richmond R.E.A.D.Y? Respect. Equity. Accountability. Diversity…YOU!!!
 
This is an EXCITING time to Join the City of Richmond! We are committed to nurturing talent, fostering growth opportunities, and building strong connections within our workforce. As we continue to make strides to becoming the employer of choice, we are thrilled about the below employee benefit enhancements:

Virginia Retirement System (VRS)
Language Incentive
Referral Bonus
Tuition Assistance Program

This is a “termed” position appointed by the Richmond Electoral Board with an ending date of June 30, 2029 

Work Location:  2134 West Laburnum Avenue, Richmond, VA  23227 *Transit-accessible* 

The Richmond Virginia Electoral Board is seeking a Director of Elections/General Registrar to provide professional and technical leadership to the Office of Elections and manage the day-to-day operations of the Voter Registration Office.  The General Registrar is responsible for ensuring the necessary resources are acquired and in place to maintain the list of registered voters and assure elections are well-prepared and conducted in an accurate, efficient, and transparent manner.  The General Registrar is to be responsible for planning, overseeing and administering the electoral process in the City of Richmond, Virginia. The General Registrar must be self-directed and will have no direct immediate supervisor but will report to and seek guidance from the Richmond, Virginia Electoral Board.   Additionally, the General Registrar will receive guidance, training and advice from the Virginia Department of elections as well as various Richmond City departments and will be tasked with the responsibilities of keeping the Board informed of all relevant matters pertaining to the smooth operation of the Voter Registration Office.

Oversee all voter registration activities, ensuring accurate and timely processing of applications and maintenance of voter records.
Plan, organize, and manage elections, including recruiting, training, and supervising election officers and staff.
Ensure compliance with all federal, state, and local election laws, policies, and procedures.
Develop and manage the department’s budget, contracts, and procurement activities.
Communicate effectively with the public, elected officials, and media, providing accurate and timely information regarding voter registration and elections.
Implement and maintain secure and efficient systems for election technology and cybersecurity.
Promote voter education and outreach initiatives to engage the community and increase voter participation to include acquisition of various voting sites and
Prepare and submit required reports to the State Board of Elections and other relevant agencies.
Oversee the day-to-day operation of the Election office to include hiring needs.
Coordinate and consult with the City Attorney and the Commonwealth’s Attorney as needed on legal issues.
Serving the community and professional organizations as a subject matter expert on elections and election administration; and representing the City at regional, state, and local workshops and conferences.

Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities

Knowledge of laws, principles, and practices of election administration and voter registration specifically in Virginia; 
Knowledge of Federal, State and Local Election Laws 
Knowledge of and experience in management and the utilization of supervision principles, concepts, and techniques; local government budgeting processes; policy formation; implementation and evaluation; security best practices, including both physical and cybersecurity.   
Knowledge of local government policies, procedures and processes is a plus; 
Knowledge of office management to include efficiency on 10-key calculators; and typing skills as well as management of office management staff is a plus;  
Experience in contract and fiscal management.
Strong written and verbal communication skills.
Strong leadership skills, including negotiation, communication both within and outside of the department. 
Ability to proficiently utilize available technologies to improve and enhance current processes, and to use initiative and innovation to explore emerging technologies.  
Ability to establish effective policies and procedures; make formal presentations and present information clearly and concisely verbally and in writing; and interpret laws, regulations, policies and procedures; and make appropriate decisions accordingly. 
Ability to interact with the general public, governmental officials, with tact and courtesy, and to work under pressure and adapt to rapidly changing circumstances. 
Ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships with county, state, federal, media, non-profit, community, private and other related entities.

Qualifications, Special Certifications and Licenses

Bachelor’s degree in public administration, Management, Business Administration, or related area and significant experience working in state and/or local government administration with a strong emphasis in voter registration and election administration with at least five years in a supervisory position.    

All incumbents must obtain Election Official certification as required by the Virginia State Department of Elections within one year of employment and every year thereafter.   Preferences will be given to those candidates who are Certified Election Officials and Certified Legal Professionals.

 

Equal Employment Opportunity Statement

The City of Richmond provides equal employment opportunities to all employees and applicants for employment and prohibits discrimination and harassment of any type without regard to race, color, religion, age, sex, national origin, disability status, genetics, protected veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, or any other characteristic protected by federal, state or local laws.

The City of Richmond is committed to the full inclusion of all qualified individuals. As part of this commitment, the City of Richmond will ensure that persons with disabilities are provided with reasonable accommodations. If you require reasonable accommodations under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) to participate in the job application and/or the interview process, please contact Jessica McKenzie, Human Resources Manager by email at Jessica.McKenzie@RVA.GOV.

This policy applies to all terms and conditions of employment, including recruitment, hiring, placement, promotion, termination, layoff, transfer, leaves of absence, compensation and training.

 

The City of Richmond Values Veterans. We are an official V3 Certified Company.

The City of Richmond is a proud partner with the US Army Partnership for Your Success PaYS Program.

 

With over 4,000 employees, the City of Richmond is an "Employer of Choice" among cities throughout the nation. The City strives to hire and retain employees who bring dedication and talent to the workforce. Offering a competitive, cost effective, and quality benefits package is one element of an "Employer of Choice". The City offers a full range of benefit programs from initial hire through retirement. Please visit our Web site for details.