=== JOB DETAILS ===

SALARY: $46,203.00 - $78,218.00 Annually
LOCATION: Wake County, NC
JOB TYPE: Permanent Full-Time
JOB NUMBER: 04242020_65005665
DEPARTMENT: State Board of Elections
DIVISION: State Board of Elections
OPENING DATE: 04/24/2020
CLOSING DATE: 6/28/2020 5:00 PM Eastern
POSITION NUMBER: 65005665
SECTION: Elections Administration
SALARY GRADE: GN12

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Max Salary: $59,240

PRIMARY PURPOSE OF THE ORGANIZATIONAL UNIT:
The State Board of Elections oversees the enforcement of federal and state laws, rules and procedures governing the conduct of elections, voter registration, and campaign finance activities in North Carolina. The Election Administration unit develops and manages processes, procedures, and policies for the conduct of elections by the State Board of Elections and county boards of elections. Specific programs include voter registration, absentee voting, in-person voting, provisional voting, candidate filing, petitions, and other areas or special programs specific to election administration.
 
PRIMARY PURPOSE OF THE POSITION:
The Candidate and Canvass Program Specialist has extensive knowledge of election administration and performs detailed planning and preparation for candidate filing, pre-election processes, post-election processes, and canvass in all 100 North Carolina counties and the State Board of Elections in compliance with General Statute 163.  Performs work in assuring that candidate filing is successful in all 100 counties and the State Board of Elections, coordinating pre-elections tasks with the Voting Systems Division such as ballot proofing and election setup, coordinating post-election tasks such as the audits and surveys, and that the canvass process is properly conducted with the cooperation of all North Carolina county boards of elections and the State Board of Elections canvass.  This position will work closely with agency legal counsel, Voting Systems section, IT division, Campaign Finance division,  and other SBE and CBE stakeholders to review election law and make necessary recommendations in election processes, procedures, and information systems pertaining to candidate filing,  candidate petitions, candidacy challenges,  election protests, pre-election procedures, post-election procedures, and the canvass period. Collaborates with Communications division to develop and maintain web content and other public documents pertaining to these areas and the Judicial Voter Guide to North Carolina households.   

Work involves providing guidance to those in the SEIMS infrastructure work group as well as the SEIMS helpdesk in questions involving candidate filing and the candidate filing process.  Responsibilities include working with the IT infrastructure team and Helpdesk in supporting counties with preparation for Canvass. Responsibilities will also include directing a program assistant and other staff to carry out program standards and objectives.

DESCRIPTION OF WORK:

Develops and reviews procedures, instructions, forms, and program materials for candidate and canvass processes. Work may be in collaboration with agency legal counsel, Voting Systems section, IT division, Campaign Finance division, and other SBE and CBE stakeholders to provide policy and procedural recommendations.  
Guides counties in implementation, administration, and compliance of candidate, canvass, and other pre-election and post-election processes, laws, and regulations. Includes assisting SBE helpdesk in providing guidance and troubleshooting. Work includes coordinating with other agency staff to administer candidate filing, election auditing, and completion of canvass. May also include working with other agencies, such as the North Carolina Secretary of State, Clerks of Court, and North Carolina Archives to ensure all elections are certified and archived properly. 
Work with Communications division to develop and maintain web content and other public documents related to candidate and canvass processes and procedures; assist with Judicial Voter Guide to North Carolina households.
Supervise and work with program assistant and direct agency staff to carry out program standards and objectives. 

Thorough knowledge of North Carolina election law, rules, and directives as it pertains to candidacy, candidate filing, and candidate certification procedures; pre-election and post-election procedures.
Thorough knowledge of federal, state and local governmental structures; federal election law, acts, and programs related to the program area.
Considerable understanding of candidacy filing module in SEIMS software and other related technology.
Ability to interpret, apply, and communicate statutory regulations of the program area.
Ability to analyze, interpret, recommend, and implement policy and procedural guidelines.
Ability to instruct and explain standards and procedures.
Ability to communicate effectively both orally and in writing.
Ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships as necessitated by work assignments.
Ability to recognize eligibility problems in applicable candidate filing and canvass processes.
Ability to provide assistance to legal and management in communicating with candidates.
Ability to provide supervision of program assistant, as well as directing other agency staff during candidate filing or other program needs.
Ability to work independently, use sound judgment in making decisions, and be an effective team member.

Bachelor s degree, preferably with an emphasis in public policy, political science, business administration or closely related area from an appropriately accredited institution, and four years of administrative and/or technical experience in a public program as it relates to the area of assignment; or Associate s degree in business administration or closely related area from an appropriately accredited institution, and six years of administrative and/or technical experience in a public program as it relates to the area of assignment; or High school or General Educational Development (GED) diploma and eight years of progressive administrative and/or technical experience in a public program as it relates to the area of assignment; or an equivalent combination of education and experience.

How would you describe your knowledge of election law, rules, and regulations as it pertains to candidacy, candidate filing and/or candidate certification procedures?
 None

 Novice

 Intermediate

 Advanced
