=== JOB DETAILS ===

Salary: $48,567.36 - $59,034.00 Annually
Location: Martinez, CA
Job Type: Permanent Full-Time
Job Number: EBTA-2020A
Department: Clerk - Recorder
Division: Elections
Opening Date: 06/17/2020
Closing Date: 7/1/2020 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Non-Exempt
Bargaining Unit: 3R

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

The Office of the County Clerk-Recorder is recruiting to fill two vacant positions as Elections Services Technician. Under general direction from the Election Processing Supervisor and lead direction from the Election Processing Specialist, the Elections Services Technician performs technical and complex support activities associated with the preparation for and the conduct of elections in one or more of the functional units of the Elections Division.

Why join the Contra Costa County Clerk-Recorder's Office?

Are you an innovator and high achiever?  Service driven? Dedicated to quality? Would you like to be a part of a nationally recognized Election Team?

The Contra Costa County Clerk-Recorder’s Office, Elections Division is currently recruiting for a Voters Services Technician as well as a Candidate Services Technician. There are two openings within the same recruitment; both are in the Elections Services Technician classification.

If applying for the Voter Services Technician position, you’ll have the opportunity to be a part of voter registration, customer service, and Vote-by-Mail operations.

If applying for the Candidate Services Technician position, you’ll have the opportunity to be a part of the process of candidates filing to run for office, preparing voter information publications, and providing customer service.

Contra Costa County is one of the state and nation’s largest counties and currently has more than 650,000 registered voters and a population of 1.1 million.  Located in the San Francisco Bay Area, Contra Costa County offers great salary and benefits in addition to a collaborative and fast paced work environment. If you have previous experience that includes tremendous overtime during an election, be prepared for a new experience.

We are looking for someone who is:

collaborative, someone who is team-driven with strong communication skills
a skilled planner and organizer; staying on top of tasks and deadlines
committed to continuous improvement
a natural problem solver; someone who is creative and thinks on their feet
committed to public service
adaptable; being able to remain flexible when plans change

If applying for the Voter Services Technician position, this is what you will typically be responsible for:
Conducting daily processing of voter information in database systems
Providing phone and in-person customer services
Providing lead direction, training, and performing quality control checks of temporary staff
Actively participating in the unit’s planning and research activities
Assisting in updating processes and procedures
Assisting or leading assigned projects of the voter registration program including regular voter file maintenance and related voter notifications
Working on assigned projects of the vote by mail program, including issuance, return and canvassing of ballots
Assisting or leading assigned projects including processes for examining petitions and signature verification
Working on assigned projects including the process of reviewing and adjudicating provisional ballots
Assisting or leading projects including processes for military and overseas, confidential, and emergency voting 
 
If applying for the Candidate Services Technician position, this is what you will typically be responsible for:
Providing phone and in-person customer services
Providing lead direction, training, and performs quality control checks of temporary staff
Actively participating in unit’s planning and research activities
Working on updating processes and procedures
Assisting or leading assigned projects of the candidate services program including preparing candidate information guides, issuing candidate documents, and processing the official filings for candidates to appear on the ballot
Assisting or leading assigned projects including developing local measure guides and processing local measure documents
Working on assigned projects including processing candidate and campaign finance information in database systems 
Working on assigned projects related to the Voter Information Guide including formatting text in InDesign, coordinating translations of text, and proofreading materials
Assisting or leading assigned projects related to voter customer service

A few reasons you might love this job:
You will be able to serve your community through public service
The opportunity to work in a highly collaborative team environment
This position will offer you a chance to be a part of democracy in action
Become a member of a highly-respected elections team
You will develop a competency and understanding of multiple election functions

A few challenges you might face in this job:
Legislation and regulations regularly change therefore processes and procedures need to be regularly updated
During peak election times the number of temporary team members requiring direction, training, and feedback increases significantly 
Team work expectations require supporting the work of other elections functions
Some schedule flexibility required during peak election times

Read the complete job description online here: https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/contracosta/classspecs/18400


Competencies Required:
Critical Thinking: Analytically and logically evaluating information, propositions, and claims
Delivering Results: Meeting organizational goals and customer expectations and making decisions that produce high-quality results by applying technical knowledge, analyzing problems, and calculating risks
Fact Finding: Obtaining facts and data pertaining to an issue or question
Innovative Problem Solving: Identifying and analyzing problems in order to propose new ways to do business
Using Technology: Performing computations and solving mathematical problems
Action and Results Focused: Initiating tasks and focusing on accomplishment
Adaptability: Responding positively to change and modifying behavior as the situation requires
Attention to Detail: Focusing on the details of work content, work steps, and final work products
Displaying Ownership and Accountability: Holding self and others accountable for measurable high-quality, timely, and cost-effective results
Learning Agility: Seeking learning opportunities and applying the lessons to one’s work
Informing: Proactively obtaining and sharing information
Customer Focus: Attending to the needs and expectations of customers
Teamwork: Collaborating with others to achieve shared goals

Assists with design and presentation of training programs to elections division employees, volunteer workers, and members of the public
Uses computer-based programs to perform a variety of functions, including designing (but not limited to) reports, forms, envelops, instruction sheets and ballot layouts
Answers questions from the public regarding complex election issues, including election laws and regulations governing the conduct of elections
Assists with studies on election matters and prepares professional reports 
Performs the complex and technical functions of the unit 
Identifies requirements and schedules adequate time to prepare necessary documents and supplies and meet deadlines according to election codes and the department election calendar 
Implements and follows procedures to increase efficiency and accuracy of election processes 
Attend meetings and/or seminars related to functional unit 
Assures election procedures are strictly followed and facility/ballot security is maintained at all times 
As needed, assist other functional units in election processing duties 

License Required: Candidates must possess a valid California Motor Vehicle Operator's License.  Out of State Valid Motor Vehicle Operator's License will be accepted during the application process.
 
Education: Possession of a high school diploma, G.E.D. equivalency or high school proficiency certificate.
 
Experience:  Two (2) years of full-time or its equivalent clerical or technical experience using spreadsheet, word processing, and database management programs, or in a customer service position which must have included responsibility for interpretation and application of rules and policies.

Desirable Qualifications: 

Previous experience in the field of voting and elections
Fluency in Chinese, Spanish, Korean, Vietnamese or Tagalog
Experience in InDesign (for Candidate Services Technician position)

Application Filing: All applicants must apply on-line at www.cccounty.us/hr and submit the information as indicated on the job announcement and supplemental questionnaire by the final filing date.
Application Evaluation: Depending on the number of applications received, an Application Evaluation Board may be convened to evaluate and select the best-qualified candidates for invitation to the next phase of the examination.
Written multiple-choice exam: A written multiple-choice assessment will be conducted to measure candidates' competencies as they relate to the job. These may include, but are not limited to: Critical Thinking, Using Technology, Adaptability, Attention to Detail, and Teamwork (Weighted 50%). Applicants must achieve a passing score to continue on to the Oral Board phase.
Oral Board: An oral interview will be conducted by a Qualifications Appraisal Board. The Board will evaluate candidates in job-related areas such as Critical Thinking, Using Technology, Adaptability, Attention to Detail, and Teamwork (Weighted 50%).

The written multiple-choice assessment is tentatively scheduled to take place between 07/10/2020- 07/13/2020.

The oral board is tentatively scheduled to take place between 7/23/2020-7/24/2020.

The written assessment will be administered remotely using a computer. You will need access to a reliable internet connection to take the assessment. You will not be able to take the assessment using a mobile device such as a cell phone.

The oral interview will also be administered remotely using a computer-based video interview software. Mobile devices are supported. Further instructions will be shared with applicants who proceed to that stage.

The Human Resources Department may change the examination steps noted above in accordance with the Personnel Management Regulations and accepted selection practices. 
 
CONVICTION HISTORY
After you receive a conditional job offer, you will be fingerprinted, and your fingerprints will be sent to the California Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). The resulting report of your conviction history (if any) will be used to determine whether the nature of your conviction conflicts with the specific duties and responsibilities of the job for which you have received a conditional job offer. If a conflict exists, you will be asked to present any evidence of rehabilitation that may mitigate the conflict, except when federal or state regulations bar employment in specific circumstances. Having a conviction history does not automatically preclude you from a job with Contra Costa County. If you accept a conditional job offer, the Human Resources department will contact you to schedule a fingerprinting appointment.
 
DISASTER SERVICE WORKER
All Contra Costa County employees are designated Disaster Service Workers through state and local law. Employment with the County requires the affirmation of a loyalty oath to this effect. Employees are required to complete all Disaster Service Worker-related training as assigned, and to return to work as ordered in the event of an emergency.
 
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
It is the policy of Contra Costa County to consider all applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, ethnicity, age, disability, sexual orientation, gender, gender identify, gender expression, marital status, ancestry, medical condition, genetic information, military or veteran status, or other protected category under the law

To find more information on Benefits offered by Contra Costa County, please go to https://www.contracosta.ca.gov/1343/Employee-Benefits


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        The purpose of this supplemental questionnaire is to provide applicants the opportunity to elaborate on their qualifications for the Elections Services Technician position and to assist in assessing each applicant's individual qualifications. Your responses to the supplemental questionnaire will be used to evaluate your relevant experience and training to determine which applicants will be invited to participate in the next step of the selection process.
        
        
                I understand
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        The minimum qualifications for this class require:

License required: Possession of a valid California Motor Vehicle Operator's License. Out of state valid motor vehicle operator's license will be accepted during the application process.

Education: Possession of a high school diploma, G.E.D. equivalency or high school proficiency certificate.

Experience: Two (2) years of full-time or its equivalent clerical or technical experience using spreadsheet, word processing, and database management programs, or in a customer service position which must have included responsibility for interpretation and application of rules and policies.
        
        
                I understand candidates must possess the minimum qualifications in order to be considered
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Do you possess a valid driver's license?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Do you possess a high school diploma, G.E.D equivalency, or high school proficiency certificate?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        How many years of full time, or its equivalent, clerical or technical experience do you possess using spreadsheets, word processing, and database management programs OR
working in a customer service position which must have included responsibility for interpretation and application of rules and policies?
        
        
                3 years or more of experience as described
                2 years or more, but less than 3 years, of experience as described
                1 year or more, but less than 2 years, of experience as described
                Less than 1 year of experience as described
                I do not have any experience as described
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Are you fluent in Chinese (Mandarin and/or Cantonese)?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        If you marked Yes to the question above. What is your proficiency level in Cantonese and/or Mandarin?
        
        
                Native Cantonese and/or Mandarin speaker
                Full professional proficiency
                Professional working proficiency
                Limited working proficiency
                Elementary proficiency
                No Proficiency/Not applicable
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Do you possess experience in the field of voting or elections?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        Do you possess experience working with InDesign?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        I certify that I meet the announced minimum requirements for this examination and understand that I will be eliminated at any stage in such examination if it develops that, in fact I do not meet them. I further certify that all statements made in this supplemental questionnaire and the application are true and I agree and understand that misstatements or omissions of material facts will cause forfeiture of my rights to employment with Contra Costa County.
        
        
                I agree.
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        