=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Departmental Technician 7-E9 - Metrics Tech
Salary: $46,904.00 - $64,438.40 YEAR
Location: Lansing, MI, MI, 48909
Employer: State of Michigan
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2024-09-11
Job Type: Permanent Full Time
Remote Employment: Flexible/Hybrid
Job Number: 2301-24-BOE042
Department: Department of State
Opening Date: 09/12/2024
Closing Date: 9/21/2024 11:59 PM Eastern
Bargaining Unit: UNITED AUTO WORKERS (UAW)

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===




This position coordinates and compiles all data requests within the Bureau of Elections applications. The incumbent will produce reports that the Election Operations Division director can use data to provide recommendations for process improvement or acquisition of new technology. The position generally provides data reports for Bureau of Election projects.



Position Description (Download PDF reader)


This position has the potential to work a hybrid/remote work schedule.

MDOSJOBS

Education

Education typically acquired through completion of high school.


Experience

Departmental Technician 7
One year of experience performing administrative support activities equivalent to the 7-level in state service.

Departmental Technician 8
One year of experience performing administrative support activities equivalent to the 8-level in state service.
OR
One year of experience as a technician or paraprofessional equivalent to the entry level in state service.

Departmental Technician E9
One year of experience as a supervisor of administrative support activities equivalent to the 9-level in state service.
OR
One year of experience performing administrative support activities equivalent to the 9-level in state service.
OR
Two years of experience as a technician or paraprofessional, including one year of experience equivalent to the intermediate level in state service.

Departmental Technician 7
Completion of two years of college (60 semester or 90 term credits) may be substituted for the experience requirement.

Departmental Technician 8
Possession of a Bachelor’s degree may be substituted for the experience requirement.

Departmental Technician E9
Possession of a Bachelor’s degree and one year of job-related experience may be substituted for the experience
requirement.

Accommodations
If you require a reasonable accommodation to participate in the application or selection processes, please contact the ADA coordinator (Download PDF reader) for the agency that posted this position vacancy.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Are you related to anyone working at the Department of State (Secretary of State)?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        If you answered "yes" to question #1, please list the name of each relative. If you answered "no" to question #1, please enter "none".
        
        
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Do you possess the education typically acquired through completion of high school?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        DPTLTCH – Please select your level of experience.
        
        
                One year of experience performing administrative support activities equivalent to the 7-level in state 
service.
                One year of experience performing administrative support activities equivalent to the 8-level in state 
service OR
One year of experience as a technician or paraprofessional equivalent to the entry level in state service.
                One year of experience as a supervisor of administrative support activities equivalent to the 9-level in 
state service.
OR
One year of experience performing administrative support activities equivalent to the 9-level in state 
service.
OR
Two years of experience as a technician or paraprofessional, including one year of experience 
equivalent to the intermediate level in state service.
                Completion of two years of college (60 semester or 90 term credits).
                Possession of a Bachelor's degree
                Possession of a Bachelor's degree and one year of professional experience.
                None
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        Please list all previous names, to include name at birth, and any alias name(s) used. If you do not have any previous/alias names to list, please enter "none".
        
        
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have managing, maintaining, and reviewing databases?
        
        
                None
                Less than 1 year
                1 to 3 years
                3 to 5 years
                More than 5 years
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        Describe your experience managing, maintaining, and reviewing databases.  If you do not possess this experience, enter NA.
        
        
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have navigating between different programs or applications (such as Microsoft Office and/or automated systems) and obtaining and processing the necessary information?
        
        
                None
                Less than 1 year
                1 to 2 years
                More than 2 years
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        Describe your experience navigating between different programs (such as Microsoft Office and/or automated systems)? and obtaining and processing the necessary information. If you do not possess this experience, please enter NA.
        
        
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        How would you describe your experience compiling and reporting on data?
        
        
                This has been a main component (something I do every day) of my current or previous positions.
                I have experience with this, but it hasn't been a main component of my current or previous positions.
                I don't have experience in this area.
        
    


    
        

11

    

    
        Please describe your experience compiling and reporting on data. If you do not possess this experience, please enter NA.
        
        
        
    


    
        

12

    

    
        This position requires advanced Microsoft Excel skills. Please detail your experience using Excel and provide formulas/functions you have used regularly in the past. If you do not possess these skills, please enter NA.
        
        
        
    


    
        

13

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have working with SQL databases?
        
        
                None
                1-2 years
                3-4 years
                5 or more years
        
    


    
        

14

    

    
        Please describe your SQL database experience. If you do not possess this experience, please enter NA.
        
        
        
    


    
        

15

    

    
        Describe a time when you created an environment of honesty, inclusion and respect for others. Describe the situation, the actions you took, and the outcome.
        
        
        
    


    
        

16

    

    
        Are you currently a Bureau of Elections employee or contractor?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

17

    

    
        Did you remember to attach an updated resume, cover letter, and transcripts (if applicable) to your application? *Failure to do so may result in your application being screened out of the selections process.*
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

18

    

    
        Please select from the options below: (Please note, actions that have been expunged, formal counseling, and layoff actions need not be reported.) Failure to answer this question honestly may result in being sanctioned from employment with MDOS. Please select all that apply.
        
        
                I have been dismissed within the last two years
                I have resigned in lieu of discipline or dismissal within the last two years
                I have been suspended without pay within the last two years
                I have received an unsatisfactory rating in the last two years
                I have received a written reprimand within the last two years
                I have signed a last chance agreement with MDOS within the last two years
                I certify that none of the above circumstances apply to me
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        