=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: General Office Assistant 5-E7 - Operations Assistant
Salary: $41,100.80 - $58,177.60 YEAR
Location: Lansing, MI, MI, 48909
Employer: State of Michigan
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2024-09-11
Job Type: Permanent Full Time
Job Number: 2301-24-BOE041
Department: Department of State
Opening Date: 09/12/2024
Closing Date: 9/21/2024 11:59 PM Eastern
Bargaining Unit: UNITED AUTO WORKERS (UAW)

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

 

This general office assistant position functions as administrative support for the Election Operations Division offering a full range of clerical duties and assignments. Incumbent will support administrative duties related to special projects, reimbursement, grant management programs, equipment orders, postage/mail and other operational activities. The position also aids in answering questions about the general Election Operations procedures. Incumbent supports payroll processing.



Position Description - General Office Assistant 5-E7 (Download PDF reader)



MDOSJOBS

Education
Educational level typically acquired through completion of high school.

Experience
General Office Assistant 5 - No specific type or amount of experience is required.

General Office Assistant 6 - One year of administrative support experience.

General Office Assistant E7 - Two years of administrative support experience, including one year equivalent to the intermediate level.

You must apply for this vacancy through the NEOGOV system; click on "Apply" in the job posting for instructions in submitting your electronic application. Your application for any position does not guarantee that you will be contacted by the Department for further consideration. Only those applicants interviewed will be notified of the results.

Please attach a cover letter and resume to your application. Failure to do so may result in your application being screened out.

If you have college credits or a degree, please attach a copy of your official transcripts to your application as well. 

Civil Service Commission Rule 2-7 requires that all newly hired state employees submit to and pass a pre-employment drug test prior to their actual appointment.  Due to the nature of work of the Department of State, criminal records will be checked.  Any position offer will be conditional until results of the criminal background record checks indicate eligibility for employment.



View the job specification at: General Office Assistant (Download PDF reader)

Accommodations
If you require a reasonable accommodation to participate in the application or selection processes, please contact the ADA coordinator (Download PDF reader) for the agency that posted this position vacancy.


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        Are you related to anyone working at the Department of State (Secretary of State)?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        If you answered "Yes" to question #1 please list the name of each relative. If you answered "No" to question #1, please enter "None".
        
        
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        GNOFAST - Do you possess at least an educational level typically acquired through the completion of high school?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        Please select your level of administrative support experience.
        
        
                None
                Less than 1 year
                1 to 2 years
                More than 2 years
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have processing reimbursement/grant requests, reviewing financial statements or a similar detail-oriented task?
        
        
                None
                Less than 1 year
                1 to 3 years
                3 to 5 years
                More than 5 years
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Describe your experience processing reimbursement/grant requests, reviewing financial statements or a similar detail-oriented task. If you do not have any experience, enter N/A.
        
        
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have in customer service?
        
        
                None
                Less than 1 year
                1 to 3 years
                3 to 5 years
                More than 5 years
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Describe your experience in customer service? If you do not possess this experience, please enter N/A.
        
        
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        How many years of on the job work experience do you possess performing general office duties, For Example: composing correspondence, setting up files, using various office equipment, taking meeting minutes?
        
        
                None
                Less than 1 year
                1 to 3 years
                3 to 5 years
                More than 5 years
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        Describe your experience performing general office duties. If you do not have any experience, enter N/A.
        
        
        
    


    
        

11

    

    
        Describe a time when you created an environment of honesty, inclusion and respect for others. Describe the situation, the actions you took, and the outcome.
        
        
        
    


    
        

12

    

    
        Are you currently a Bureau of Elections employee or contractor?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

13

    

    
        Did you remember to attach an updated resume, cover letter, and transcripts (if applicable) to your application? *Failure to do so may result in your application being screened out of the selections process.*
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

14

    

    
        Please select from the options below: (Please note, actions that have been expunged, formal counseling, and layoff actions need not be reported.) Failure to answer this question honestly may result in being sanctioned from employment with MDOS. Please select all that apply.
        
        
                I have been dismissed within the last two years
                I have resigned in lieu of discipline or dismissal within the last two years
                I have been suspended without pay within the last two years
                I have received an unsatisfactory rating in the last two years
                I have received a written reprimand within the last two years
                I have signed a last chance agreement with MDOS within the last two years
                I certify that none of the above circumstances apply to me
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        