=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Director of Elections/General Registrar
Salary: $148,293.00 - $182,393.00 YEAR
Location: Fairfax, VA, VA, 22030
Employer: City of Fairfax
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2023-05-31
Job Type: Full Time
Job Number: 23-52
Department: Voter Registration & Elections
Division: Voter Registration & Elections
Opening Date: 06/01/2023
Closing Date: 7/10/2023 11:59 PM Eastern

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

The General Registrar is a department head and manages two full time employees, a team of temporary staff, and 60-100 elections officers.   He/she is responsible for Voter Registration, candidate filing, campaign finance, and Election Management, including security protocols.

 

The Registrar must perform the duties outlined in Virginia Code Sec. 24.2-114 to include timely processing of registration applications and maintaining accurate and current registration records, assuring compliance with all laws and regulations regarding voter registration and especially overseeing the registration process including eligibility determination and denial notification process in accordance with Department of Elections Guidelines. 

Elections management duties are carried out at the direction of the Electoral Board and include the maintenance, preparation, testing and deployment of the voting machines.

 

Assuring the availability of the polling places; posting of precinct signs and preparation of election materials for the polling places.

 

Assisting the Electoral Board to insure the uniformity, legality, and accuracy of elections.

 

The General Registrar is required to manage all personnel, fiscal and physical resources as needed to provide all required and desired services of the office. 

 

Develop and administer a public information program to encourage registration and voting.

 

Deal with inquiries and complaints from the general public and be a capable public leader.

 

Must have the ability to establish effective working relationships with employees, City officials and the general public. 

 

Responsible for officer of elections training and preparation to include duties as a primary trainer of officers of election.

 

The duties listed above are intended only as an illustration of the various types of work that may be performed. The omission of specific statements of duties does not exclude them from the position if the work is similar, related, or a logical assignment to the position.

Experience in election law/administration, voter registration, services as an election officer or in business and/or political experience may be considered.

 

Should possess expertise in the Voter Registration process and in Election Management.

 

Necessary Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities:

 

Comprehensive knowledge of the principles, practices and the laws that govern voter registration and election administration are necessary.

 

Must possess knowledge of and ability to easily deal with cutting edge technology, including both standard and proprietary computer programs and modern office technology.

 

Must be able to deal with the public in a polite, courteous, pleasant, and professional manner in writing, in person and by telephone.

 

Knowledge of local government, community and political structure, budgeting, standard office procedures, federal and state election laws. 

 

Management skills, including prior supervision of personnel, ability to recruit volunteers, public relations.

 

Good oral and written communications skills are required. 




Additional Desirable Qualification:

 

The General Registrar must be a legal resident and registered voter of the Commonwealth of Virginia at the time of appointment.  

 

Must be able, when necessary, to work nights and weekends.




Special Certifications and Licenses:




Must possess a valid Virginia driver’s license and be able to travel within the City with their own vehicle.

The City of Fairfax offers comprehensive benefits to our employees. Read more about our Benefits here.  