=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: Elections Technician
Salary: $47,415.42 - $74,878.29 YEAR
Location: Downtown Minneapolis, MN, 55487
Employer: Hennepin County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2022-02-27
Job Type: Limited Duration: Regular Sched (FT with benefits)
Job Number: 22RRES608MN023
Department: Land Information and Tax Svcs
Division: Elections
Opening Date: 02/28/2022
Closing Date: 3/11/2022 11:59 PM Central

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Hennepin County’s Elections Division is seeking a technology driven Elections Technician to join the Equipment and Technology team. This candidate will perform essential administrative tasks to administer secure and transparent elections in Hennepin County. This position primarily consists of election equipment programming, preparation and testing, troubleshooting, hardware replacement, data entry, and other administrative duties. This candidate must be non-partisan and interested in election administration and government processes.
 
Location and hours:
This position is hybrid and will be performed at various Hennepin County sites in downtown Minneapolis, and remote as job duties require. Work hours will be Monday through Friday, during core hours for customers between 8 a.m. – 4:30 p.m., with some flexibility. Occasional evenings, weekends, and overtime will be required.


New employees who are hired into remote or hybrid positions between January 2, 2022 to December 31, 2024, will receive $500 toward the cost of establishing consistent internet connectivity, payable upon completion of 6 months of employment.  

About the position type:
This is a limited duration (temporary), full-time, benefit earning position with a timeframe of April 2022 – April 2024, with the possibility of extension.
This position is internally classified as an Administrative Assistant. 
Click hereto view the job classification specification.


Effective September 1, 2021, all new job offers are conditional based on the candidate being fully vaccinated for COVID-19. “Fully vaccinated” means 14 days after receiving the second dose in a two-dose vaccination series approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on a full or emergency-use basis, or 14 days after receiving a single-dose vaccine approved by the FDA on a full or emergency-use basis. After a conditional job offer is made, the candidate must show proof of full vaccination prior to their start date. A COVID-19 vaccination card from the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), a vaccination record from your doctor’s office or a personal digital vaccination record constitutes sufficient “proof.” The candidate must also attest they are vaccinated by completing a form on the first day of employment. Reasonable accommodations to this vaccination requirement will be considered upon request by a candidate for medical or religious reasons as required by applicable law.
 
In this position, you will:
Design and program ballots and election media; administer proofing procedures to confirm ballot styles align with each precinct and meet all legal requirements.
Coordinate ballot printing and delivery to all municipalities, including county voting locations.
Prepare and evaluate election programming to verify the logic and accuracy of all voting system components; ensure system components remain fully operational at all times.
Assist with training and support of municipal clerks; verify all testing requirements are fulfilled for each election.
Maintain inventory of elections equipment and accessories.
Oversee the transmission of election results; accurately deliver results to public entities in a timely manner. 
Thoroughly test, proof, transfer, and upload results to ensure error-free performance.
Prepare alternate courses of action and obtain support from equipment vendors, peer counties, and/or the Secretary of State’s office, when necessary. 


Need to have:
One of the following:
Bachelor's degree or higher in business administration, political science, public administration, or another field appropriate to the position.
Four years or more of experience in general administrative work related to the management of departmental/organizational operations or in a specialty area appropriate to the position.


Nice to have:

Two years or more of experience working in Minnesota elections.
Two years or more of technical elections experience using the Statewide Voter Registration System (SVRS) and/or the Election Reporting System (ERS).
Experience:
Using Elections System & Software (ES&S) and/or Democracy Live hardware.
Communicating technical information and managing confidential files and information.
Troubleshooting technology-based issues to a variety of customers. 
Ability to:
Provide non-partisan, impartial, and excellent customer service.
Handle complex and detailed tasks in a fast-paced and highly sensitive environment.
Handle complex and simultaneous tasks by setting priorities to meet deadlines.
Work collaboratively with a diverse group of team members, including internal and external partners.
Manage inventory of elections equipment.
Work with great attention to detail.
Understand basic elections policy and procedures.
Estimate potential challenges, risks, and generate solutions.


About the department:
Resident and Real Estate Services covers the foundational responsibilities of government: land surveying, land recording, property tax collection and distribution, voter registration and elections. Our eight service centers locations provide access to licenses, vital records, and other documents that help the constituency of Hennepin County.
 
About Hennepin County:
Hennepin is the largest county government organization in Minnesota. Our employees work every day to improve the health, safety and quality of life for our residents and communities. All of our jobs align to one or more of our overarching goals -- that Hennepin County residents are healthy, protected and safe, self-reliant, assured due process, and mobile.
 
Our employees receive a combination of generous benefits and positive workplace culture not found at other organizations. This includes meaningful work that impacts our community, competitive pay, work-life balance, a variety of benefits and opportunities to grow. Learn more at www.hennepin.us/employees.
 
Hennepin County envisions an organization where our commitment to diversity and the reduction of disparities is fundamental in providing excellent service to our community.
 
Your future. Made here.

Invitations to interview will be based upon an assessment of education and experience. Final candidates will be required to complete a background check.

If you have any questions, please contact:
Talent Acquisition Division
Hennepin County Human Resources Department
HR.ServiceCenter@hennepin.us
612-348-7855

Why work here? Hennepin County embraces the Total Rewards philosophy. We want our employees to succeed – not only at work but as they move through life and its milestones. We offer advantages and opportunities others can't – including: 	Meaningful work	Public service	Competitive pay	Work-life balance	Generous benefits	Opportunities to grow	Commitment to your success By working in public service, we are a part of something larger than ourselves. Together, we support those in need. We help people access information and services. We empower vibrant and diverse communities. We serve residents.  Employee Benefits Summary Visit our benefits page to learn more: bridge.hennepin.us/eligibility.If you are a current Hennepin County employee please be aware that any change in job classification may affect your current benefits (such as a conversion from Vacation/Sick Leave to Paid Time Off and/or enrollment in a Health Care Saving Plan.) Information about the impact of job changes on benefits can be found here. 


                            
    
        

01

    

    
        This is a limited duration (temporary), full-time, benefit earning position with a timeframe of April 2022 – April 2024, with the possibility of extension. Are you willing to accept these terms of employment?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

02

    

    
        This position is hybrid and will be performed at various Hennepin County sites in downtown Minneapolis, and remote as job duties require. Work hours will be Monday through Friday, during core hours for customers between 8 a.m. – 4:30 p.m., with some flexibility. Occasional evenings, weekends, and overtime will be required.Are you willing and able to meet this requirement?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

03

    

    
        Do you have a bachelor's degree or higher in business administration, public administration, or another field appropriate to this position?
        
        
                Yes
                No
        
    


    
        

04

    

    
        List your relevant education making reference to area(s) of study, school(s) attended, credits completed and certificate(s)/degree(s) earned. If you do not have any relevant education, type "None" in the space provided.
        
        
        
    


    
        

05

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have in general administrative work related to the management of departmental/organizational operations or in a specialty area appropriate to the position?
        
        
                I do not have this experience
                Less than 1 year
                1 year or more, but less than 2 years
                2 years or more, but less than 3 years
                3 years or more, but less than 4 years
                4 years or more
        
    


    
        

06

    

    
        Describe your experience in general administrative work related to the management of departmental/organizational operations or in a specialty area appropriate to the position, referencing jobs listed in your application/resume. If you do not have this experience, type "None" in the space provided.
        
        
        
    


    
        

07

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have working in Minnesota elections?
        
        
                I do not have this experience
                Less than 1 year
                1 year or more, but less than 2 years
                2 years or more
        
    


    
        

08

    

    
        Describe your experience working in Minnesota elections, referencing jobs listed in your application/resume. If you do not have this experience, type "None" in the space provided.
        
        
        
    


    
        

09

    

    
        How many years of technical elections experience do you have using the Statewide Voter Registration System (SVRS) and/or Election Reporting System (ERS)?
        
        
                I do not have this experience
                Less than 1 year
                1 year or more, but less than 2 years
                2 years or more
        
    


    
        

10

    

    
        Describe your technical elections experience using the Statewide Voter Registration System (SVRS) and/or Election Reporting System (ERS), referencing jobs listed in your application/resume. If you do not have this experience, type "None" in the space provided.
        
        
        
    


    
        

11

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have communicating technical information and managing confidential files and information?
        
        
                I do not have this experience
                Less than 1 year
                1 year or more, but less than 2 years
                2 years or more, but less than 3 years
                3 years or more, but less than 4 years
                4 years or more
        
    


    
        

12

    

    
        Describe your experience communicating technical information and managing confidential files and information, referencing jobs listed in your application/resume. If you do not have this experience type "None" in the space provided.
        
        
        
    


    
        

13

    

    
        How many years of experience do you have troubleshooting technology-based issues to a variety of customers?
        
        
                I do not have this experience
                Less than 1 year
                1 year or more, but less than 2 years
                2 years or more, but less than 3 years
                3 years or more, but less than 4 years
                4 years or more
        
    


    
        

14

    

    
        Describe your experience troubleshooting technology-based issues to a variety of customers, referencing jobs listed in your application/resume. If you do not have this experience, type "None" in the space provided.
        
        
        
    


    
        

15

    

    
        Please choose the one recruitment source that best describes how you first learned about this job opening. Please review all possible choices before making your selection. Your response to this question helps us evaluate the effectiveness of our recruitment methods.
        
        
                College or university (job board, career services, or instructor)
                Community or nonprofit organization (counselor, job board, etc.)
                Hennepin County employee or recruiter
                Hennepin County job notification emails
                Indeed.com
                Job fair or networking event
                LinkedIn
                Print advertisement (flyer, postcard, billboard, transit ad, etc.)
                Professional association (job board or email)
                Radio
                Social media (Twitter, Facebook, Glassdoor, etc.)
                www.hennepin.jobs
                Other
        
    


    
        

16

    

    
        For the recruitment source selected above, please provide the specific name of the person, website or media source.
        
        
        
    


                                
                                     Required Question
                                
                        