=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: REGISTRAR OF VOTERS JURIS DOCTORATE
Salary: $169,852.80 - $237,785.60 YEAR
Location: Reno, NV, NV, 89512
Employer: Washoe County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2024-08-21
Job Type: Full Time
Job Number: 600(08/2024)
Department: Registrar of Voters
Opening Date: 08/21/2024
Closing Date: 10/2/2024 11:59 PM Pacific

BENEFITS:
  • Nevada PERS Retirement - Washoe County pays 100% of the PERS contribution for each benefit eligible employee.
  • Health, Dental, Life and Vision Insurance - Washoe County contributes 100% of the premium for each employee.  Washoe County also contributes 50% of the premium for dependent coverage. Note: New employees are automatically enrolled in the High Deductible Health Plan (HDHP) with a Health Savings Account. Washoe County contributes up to $2,500 annually (based on benefit effective date and coverage tier) into the employee's Health Savings Account (HSA). Newly hired employees become eligible for health benefits after 30 days of employment.  Benefits Link - Click Here
  • Deferred Compensation plans available
  • 12 Paid Holidays
  • Vacation Accrual (120 hours per year, increasing with continued employment)
  • Sick Leave (120 hours per year, increasing with continued employment)
  • Longevity Pay
  • Merit Increases - Full-time employees eligible to receive an annual merit increase of 5% until the position classification’s maximum salary is reached.
  • Cost-of living adjustments - historical annual COLA increases for 2017-2024 have ranged from 2.5% - 5.0%
  • There are no Social Security deductions (although a 1.45% deduction for Medicare is required)
  • Nevada does not have state or local income tax*

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Under general direction of the County Manager, monitors changes in voting and elections at the state and federal level; plans, organizes, directs and manages the operations of the Registrar of Voters Department; and performs related work as required.

The Registrar of Voters Juris Doctorate position  plans, organizes, directs and manages the operations of the Registrar of Voters Department; stays  informed of federal, state and local laws including changes related to elections and the voting process, changes at the Nevada Legislature; drafting and review of bill draft requests related to election process and voting and best practices; testifies  at the legislature on behalf of the county and on a national level; works with the Secretary of State’s Office and the Washoe County District Attorney’s Office to determine impact of changes to Washoe County and works with staff on the implementation process of the changes to ensure county compliance. 

The Registrar of Voters Juris Doctorate serves as the face of the office and is frequently asked for media interviews and will provide updates and presentations to the Board of County Commissioners.  Manages requests for confidential election related records and equipment in the County’s custody and navigating complex public records requests from local and national media. Assist with identification, preparation, and response to potential AI threats. The Registrar of Voters works across many County Departments to secure election workers, coordinate technology, and secure adequate facilities.

This is an Open Competitive/Countywide Promotional recruitment being conducted to fill a current full-time vacancy with the Registrar of Voters department. The list established from this recruitment may be used to fill future vacancies as they occur.

To view the full job announcement brochure, please click here (Download PDF reader).

For more information on this position, please see the Job Specification at https://www.washoecounty.gov/humanresources/Careers/jobspecs.php 

A law degree from an accredited law school AND two years of experience practicing law that specializes in elections, public sector, or a related field to include one year of supervisory experience; OR an equivalent combination of training and experience.

LICENSE OR CERTIFICATE  


Must be a US Citizen at the time of application.
Possession of a valid driver’s license required at time of appointment. 
Must be a registered voter in the State of Nevada or become a registered voter at the time of appointment.
Current and valid license to practice law from the Supreme Court of the State of Nevada and membership in the State Bar of Nevada at the time of application. Licensure must be maintained for continued employment in this classification.

IDEAL CANDIDATE
Washoe County is seeking a strong, progressive leader for the Registrar of Voters position to oversee the Department responsibilities and staff. The Ideal Candidate will bring a firm understanding of Nevada election law and leadership/management experience; an understanding of the election process; be a strategic thinker and will establish and maintain collaborative and effective working relationships with the public, staff, elected and appointed officials and representatives of other governmental units.

ABOUT THE REGISTRAR OF VOTERS 
The Registrar of Voters Department with a staff of 19, is responsible for conducting primary, presidential preference primary, general, special, and district elections in Washoe County in conformance with the regulations set forth by the Nevada Secretary of State.  The office also offers nonpartisan, educational presentations to organizations that support voter registration opportunities and educate our community about voting in Washoe County. They also share election updates, educate the public about resources available to them, and solicit input and/or participation in the election process.  

This is an unclassified position appointed by the Board of County Commissioners and serves at the pleasure of the Board of County Commissioners pursuant to NRS 244.164; and Washoe County Code 5.451. 




Washoe County requires its employees to reside in the state of Nevada or neighboring California communities such as Truckee, South Lake Tahoe or Susanville as of their first day of work.

Washoe County hires all new employees at the minimum rate of the salary range and eligible employees may receive an annual merit increase of 5% until they reach the maximum salary for the classification. Upon promotion, current Washoe County employees are placed at the minimum rate of the salary range for the higher classification of the new position OR a promotional calculation, whichever is greater.

TO BE CONSIDERED:
You must submit the required application at: https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/washoecounty

In addition, the following documents must be included with the application before the filing deadline in order to be considered:


Compelling cover letter
Three professional references
Three letters of recommendation
Comprehensive resume which includes how the applicant meets the Ideal Candidate criteria

If you have any questions about the position, please contact Julie Paholke, Human Resources Manager at jpaholke@washoecounty.gov

TENTATIVE TIMELINE:
Applications accepted from August 21, 2024, through October 2, 2024.

Week of October 7, 2024 
The Screening Committee reviews candidate materials to identify top candidates with the most potential for success. 

Week of October 21, 2024 
Top candidates will be contacted for an interview.

Week of November 11, 2024
First round of Interviews and Recommendation of Top Candidates to the County Manager.

Week of November 18, 2024
Second interviews of Top Candidates (Second interview panel includes the County Manager and District Commissioner per recruitment policy established by the Board at the February 23, 2023 meeting).
 
Week of November 25, 2024
Chair and Vice Chair of the Board meet the top candidate.

Week of December 2, 2024
Required Background Investigation.

Week of December 9, 2024 
Recommendation to the Board for Formal Appointment. 

December 16, 2024
Estimated Hire Date.

Please note that this recruitment will be managed in accordance with Nevada’s Open Meeting/Public Records law. Applicant information will remain confidential until such time as the candidate is selected as a finalist in the selection process. At that time, applicant information including candidate name, application, cover letter, resume, and other submitted information (with personal identification information redacted) may be provided to the Washoe County Board of County Commissioners as part of the Commission Meeting Agenda. 


Washoe County is proud to be an equal opportunity employer and is committed to a diverse workforce that creates a sense of belonging for all employees and citizens, thereby encouraging persons from all backgrounds and experiences to apply for employment.


Washoe County will recruit, hire, train and promote into all job levels without regard to race, religion or belief, gender, marital status or domestic partnership, familial status, national origin, age, mental or physical disability, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender expression or identity, genetic information (GINA), veteran status, political affiliation, membership in an employee association or union or any other protected class under applicable federal or state law.



	Nevada PERS Retirement - Washoe County pays 100% of the PERS contribution for each benefit eligible employee.	Health, Dental, Life and Vision Insurance - Washoe County contributes 100% of the premium for each employee.  Washoe County also contributes 50% of the premium for dependent coverage. Note: New employees are automatically enrolled in the High Deductible Health Plan (HDHP) with a Health Savings Account. Washoe County contributes up to $2,500 annually (based on benefit effective date and coverage tier) into the employee's Health Savings Account (HSA). Newly hired employees become eligible for health benefits after 30 days of employment.  Benefits Link - Click Here	Deferred Compensation plans available	12 Paid Holidays	Vacation Accrual (120 hours per year, increasing with continued employment)	Sick Leave (120 hours per year, increasing with continued employment)	Longevity Pay	Merit Increases - Full-time employees eligible to receive an annual merit increase of 5% until the position classification’s maximum salary is reached.	Cost-of living adjustments - historical annual COLA increases for 2017-2024 have ranged from 2.5% - 5.0%	There are no Social Security deductions (although a 1.45% deduction for Medicare is required)	Nevada does not have state or local income tax*