=== JOB DETAILS ===

Title: REGISTRAR OF VOTERS
Salary: $144,393.60 - $202,176.00 YEAR
Location: Reno, NV, NV, 89512
Employer: Washoe County
Employment Type: OTHER
Date Posted: 2024-08-21
Job Type: Full Time
Job Number: 600009314 (08/2024)
Department: Registrar of Voters
Opening Date: 08/21/2024
Closing Date: 10/2/2024 11:59 PM Pacific

BENEFITS:
  • Nevada PERS Retirement - Washoe County pays 100% of the PERS contribution for each benefit eligible employee.
  • Health, Dental, Life and Vision Insurance - Washoe County contributes 100% of the premium for each employee.  Washoe County also contributes 50% of the premium for dependent coverage. Note: New employees are automatically enrolled in the High Deductible Health Plan (HDHP) with a Health Savings Account. Washoe County contributes up to $2,500 annually (based on benefit effective date and coverage tier) into the employee's Health Savings Account (HSA). Newly hired employees become eligible for health benefits after 30 days of employment.  Benefits Link - Click Here
  • Deferred Compensation plans available
  • 12 Paid Holidays
  • Vacation Accrual (120 hours per year, increasing with continued employment)
  • Sick Leave (120 hours per year, increasing with continued employment)
  • Longevity Pay
  • Merit Increases - Full-time employees eligible to receive an annual merit increase of 5% until the position classification’s maximum salary is reached.
  • Cost-of living adjustments - historical annual COLA increases for 2017-2024 have ranged from 2.5% - 5.0%
  • There are no Social Security deductions (although a 1.45% deduction for Medicare is required)
  • Nevada does not have state or local income tax*

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

Under general direction of the County Manager, plans, organizes, directs and manages the operations of the Registrar of Voters Department; and performs related work as required.

The Registrar of Voters plans, organizes, directs and manages the operations of the Registrar of Voters Department; plans, organizes and coordinates elections which includes hiring and training election staff, arranging for voting and training facilities, developing the election database, ensuring accuracy of data, printing ballots, purchasing, maintaining and repairing voting system hardware, ordering, preparing and distributing supplies, and performing all work required by election law. The Registrar of Voters serves as the face of the office and is frequently asked for media interviews and will provide updates and presentations to the Board of County Commissioners. 

Manages the day-to-day operations of the department; monitors all administrative functions to ensure policies and procedures are being adhered to, and that accurate records and files are maintained. Supervises and directs the maintenance of voter registration records in compliance with federal and state law. The Registrar of Voters works across many County Departments to secure election workers, coordinate technology, and secure adequate facilities. 

Supervise assigned staff, including interviewing and selecting staff; providing staff training in proper work methods and techniques; assigning and reviewing work; conducting performance evaluations. Develop and administer the department budget to include projecting future budget needs to maintain service requirements and meet changing statutory mandates; develop and implement Department policies and procedures and ensure compliance with Department and County policies and procedures.

 
This is an Open Competitive/Countywide Promotional recruitment being conducted to fill a current full-time vacancy with the Registrar of Voters department. The list established from this recruitment may be used to fill future vacancies as they occur.

To view the full job announcement brochure, please click here (Download PDF reader).

For more information on this position, please see the Job Specification at https://www.washoecounty.gov/humanresources/Careers/jobspecs.php 

A bachelor’s degree from an accredited college or university in public administration, business administration or a closely related field AND four years of full-time administrative level experience as a City or County Clerk, or in an elections, government relations, legislative or public sector field to include experience with policy development and interpreting local, state and federal election law and two years of lead or supervisory experience; OR an equivalent combination of training and experience.

LICENSE OR CERTIFICATE  
• Must be a US Citizen at the time of application. 
• Possession of a valid driver’s license required at time of appointment.
• Must be a registered voter in the State of Nevada or become a registered voter at the time of appointment.

IDEAL CANDIDATE
Washoe County is seeking a strong, progressive leader for the Registrar of Voters position to oversee the Department responsibilities and staff. The Ideal Candidate will bring a firm understanding of Nevada election law and leadership/management experience; an understanding of the election process; be a strategic thinker and will establish and maintain collaborative and effective working relationships with the public, staff, elected and appointed officials and representatives of other governmental units.

ABOUT THE REGISTRAR OF VOTERS 
The Registrar of Voters Department with a staff of 19, is responsible for conducting primary, presidential preference primary, general, special, and district elections in Washoe County in conformance with the regulations set forth by the Nevada Secretary of State.  The office also offers nonpartisan, educational presentations to organizations that support voter registration opportunities and educate our community about voting in Washoe County. They also share election updates, educate the public about resources available to them, and solicit input and/or participation in the election process.  

This is an unclassified position appointed by the Board of County Commissioners and serves at the pleasure of the Board of County Commissioners pursuant to NRS 244.164; and Washoe County Code 5.451. 


Washoe County requires its employees to reside in the state of Nevada or neighboring California communities such as Truckee, South Lake Tahoe or Susanville as of their first day of work.
 
Washoe County hires all new employees at the minimum rate of the salary range and eligible employees may receive an annual merit increase of 5% until they reach the maximum salary for the classification. Upon promotion, current Washoe County employees are placed at the minimum rate of the salary range for the higher classification of the new position OR a promotional calculation, whichever is greater.

TO BE CONSIDERED:
Submit the required application at: https://www.governmentjobs.com/careers/washoecounty
 
In addition, the following documents must be included with the application before the filing deadline in order to be considered: 

Compelling cover letter
Three professional references
Three letters of recommendation
CV which includes how the applicant meets the Ideal Candidate criteria

If you have any questions about the position, please contact Julie Paholke, Human Resources Manager at jpaholke@washoecounty.gov.
 
TENTATIVE TIMELINE:
Applications accepted from August 21, 2024, through October 2, 2024.
 
Week of October 7, 2024 
The Screening Committee reviews candidate materials to identify top candidates with the most potential for success. 
 
Week of October 21, 2024 
Top candidates will be contacted for an interview.
 
Week of November 11, 2024
First round of Interviews and Recommendation of top candidates to the County Manager.
 
Week of November 18, 2024
Second interviews of Top Candidates (Second interview panel includes the County Manager and District Commissioner per recruitment policy established by the Board at the February 23, 2023 meeting).
 
Week of November 25, 2024
Chair and Vice Chair of the Board meet the top candidate.
 
Week of December 2, 2024
Required Background Investigation.
 
Week of December 9, 2024 
Recommendation to the Board for Formal Appointment. 
 
December 16, 2024
Estimated Hire Date.
 
Please note that this recruitment will be managed in accordance with Nevada’s Open Meeting/Public Records law. Applicant information will remain confidential until such time as the candidate is selected as a finalist in the selection process. At that time, applicant information including candidate name, application materials, and other submitted information (with personal identification information redacted) may be provided to the Washoe County Board of County Commissioners as part of the Commission Meeting Agenda. 
 
Washoe County is proud to be an equal opportunity employer and is committed to a diverse workforce that creates a sense of belonging for all employees and citizens, thereby encouraging persons from all backgrounds and experiences to apply for employment.


Washoe County will recruit, hire, train and promote into all job levels without regard to race, religion or belief, gender, marital status or domestic partnership, familial status, national origin, age, mental or physical disability, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender expression or identity, genetic information (GINA), veteran status, political affiliation, membership in an employee association or union or any other protected class under applicable federal or state law.

	Nevada PERS Retirement - Washoe County pays 100% of the PERS contribution for each benefit eligible employee.	Health, Dental, Life and Vision Insurance - Washoe County contributes 100% of the premium for each employee.  Washoe County also contributes 50% of the premium for dependent coverage. Note: New employees are automatically enrolled in the High Deductible Health Plan (HDHP) with a Health Savings Account. Washoe County contributes up to $2,500 annually (based on benefit effective date and coverage tier) into the employee's Health Savings Account (HSA). Newly hired employees become eligible for health benefits after 30 days of employment.  Benefits Link - Click Here	Deferred Compensation plans available	12 Paid Holidays	Vacation Accrual (120 hours per year, increasing with continued employment)	Sick Leave (120 hours per year, increasing with continued employment)	Longevity Pay	Merit Increases - Full-time employees eligible to receive an annual merit increase of 5% until the position classification’s maximum salary is reached.	Cost-of living adjustments - historical annual COLA increases for 2017-2024 have ranged from 2.5% - 5.0%	There are no Social Security deductions (although a 1.45% deduction for Medicare is required)	Nevada does not have state or local income tax*