=== JOB DETAILS ===

Salary: $22.24 - $28.33 Hourly
Location: WA 98057-2906, WA
Job Type: zzDNU_Special Duty Assign or Term Ltdt Temp (TLT)
Job Number: 2020RL11605
Department: KCE - King County Elections
Opening Date: 04/17/2020
Closing Date: 5/1/2020 11:59 PM Pacific
FLSA: Non-Exempt
Bargaining Unit: F1A : L117-Admin

BENEFITS:
  • Excellent medical, dental, and vision coverage options: King County provides eligible employees with options, so they can decide what’s best for themselves and their eligible dependents
  • Life and disability insurance: employees are provided basic coverage and given the opportunity to purchase additional insurance for both the employee and eligible dependents
  • Retirement: eligible King County employees may participate in a pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems and a 457(b) deferred-compensation plan
  • Transportation program and ORCA transit pass
  • 12 paid holidays each year plus two personal holidays
  • Generous vacation and paid sick leave
  • Paid parental, family and medical, and volunteer leaves
  • Flexible Spending Account
  • Wellness programs
  • Onsite activity centers
  • Employee Giving Program
  • Employee assistance programs
  • Flexible schedules and telecommuting options, depending on position
  • Training and career development programs

For additional information about employee benefits, visit our
Benefits, Payroll, and Retirement Page
.
This is a general description of the benefits offered to eligible King County employees, and every effort has been made to ensure its accuracy.  If any information on this document conflicts with the provisions of a collective bargaining agreement (CBA), the CBA prevails.
NOTE:
Benefits for Term Limited Temporary (TLT) or Short Term Temporary (STT) positions, including leave eligibility and/or participation in the pension plan through the Washington State Department of Retirement Systems, will vary based upon the terms and details of the position. Short Term Temporary positions are not eligible for an ORCA transit pass.
For inquiries about the specifics of this position, please contact the recruiter identified on this job posting.

=== JOB DESCRIPTION ===

This is an amazing opportunity to be engaged in the election process!

This recruitment will be used to fill multiple Term-Limited Temporary (TLT) positions within the Voter Services and Ballot Processing sections.  These benefits-eligible TLT positions are anticipated to last until December 2020.  A Special Duty Assignment may be considered for King County Career Service employees who have passed their initial probationary period. This recruitment may also be used to create a pool of candidates to fill future TLT positions that may occur over the next 6 months.

The Department of Elections - is searching for energetic and resourceful professionals who like to "get stuff done". The Administrative Specialist II positions in the Elections Department combines an exciting, fast-paced environment with the opportunity to cultivate talents and apply a variety of skills.  The ideal candidate will have a desire to help ensure the democratic process through public service.  They will thrive in an innovative environment and will not hesitate to roll up both sleeves, work hard, have fun, and get the job done. 

We are looking for candidates who have the flexibility and willingness to work at off site vote centers across King County when they are assigned.  We are also looking for those that have the ability to work extra hours during peak election periods.

King County Elections (KCE) manages voter registrations and elections for more than 1.3 million voters in King County, the largest vote-by-mail county in the United States. KCE's mission is to conduct fair, open and accurate elections.  As a leader in providing inclusive elections, KCE is focused on three key priorities – (1) actively identifying and working to remove barriers to voting at both the individual and community level, (2) strengthening relationships with community and governmental partners, and (3) creating a culture of professional growth and development, openness and inclusion. Learn more at www.kingcounty.gov/elections.aspx .

Who May Apply: This position is open to the general public and all King County employees. 
 
Work Location(s):  These positions will work at Renton Elections Building located at 919 SW Grady Way, Renton, WA 98057.  These positions will also be frequently requested to work at the King County Administration Building located at 500 4th Ave in Seattle and may be requested to work at additional off site voting and registration centers throughout the county.

Work Schedule: This position is subject to the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) and is overtime eligible. The workweek is typically 35 hours per week, 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. We require the flexibility to work additional hours during peak periods of the Election cycle that may occur outside of typical business hours.   

Materials Required to Apply: A completed online King County employment application at www.kingcounty.gov/jobs and a Resume is required with your submission.

Provide excellent customer service to internal and external customers in person, via telephone, and via e-mail by processing voter registrations, communicating election program information and explaining election procedures, guidelines and regulations.
Perform production-level computer work which includes accurate data entry and retrieving and editing records.
Organize and coordinate work activities and assist with providing training and one-on-one instruction to diverse staff.
Set up records and file documents in both electronic and paper formats.
Review documents for proper format, accuracy, completion, eligibility, and other legal guidelines.
Audit work group data entry activities to ensure performance quality and efficiency of work.
Utilize spreadsheets, word documents and reports to track and document performance data.
Research and resolve questions from staff, citizens and stakeholders.
Document and improve work processes, procedures and instructions.

Ability to enter a high a volume of data into a production application with speed and accuracy.  Strong attention to detail with the ability to perform the repetitive tasks required for data entry.
Ability to maintain the integrity and confidentiality of the position.
Commitment to providing excellent verbal and written customer service to everyone. This can be demonstrated through establishing and maintaining effective relationships, and building rapport with a variety of people through active, attentive listening, and respect for differing backgrounds and points of view.
Demonstrated comfort with the use of personal computers, email and electronic record filing systems to create correspondence and spreadsheets, send and receive information, access and analyze data, and develop reports and outreach materials.

Desired Qualifications:
 
Experience with Microsoft Office Suite – specifically Word and Excel.
Initiative in taking on new tasks and projects.
Familiarity with diverse communities and direct community based or customer service based experience is preferred.

Travel to work locations throughout King County with limited or no public transportation services is required. A valid Washington State Driver's License is required to operate King County vehicles. 

PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS:  The duties in this position are performed in an office setting and may be required to lift at least 25 lbs. 

UNION:  This position is represented by Teamsters Local 117, Professional & Technical and Administrative Employees.

King County is proud to be an Equal Employment Opportunity /Affirmative Action employer and we encourage people of color, women, veterans and people with disabilities to apply.
 
For more information regarding this recruitment, please contact: 
Reeshema Lewis
Sr. HR Business Partner
Email: Reeshema.Lewis@kingcounty.gov
Phone: 206-263-8413